906 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON DEPENDABLE AND SECURE COMPUTING, VOL. 21, NO. 2, MARCH/APRIL 2024
to ﬁnd vulnerabilities that are guarded by complex conditions
and do not manifest as crashes. The methods based on machine
learning [22], [23], [24] rely on experts to manually deﬁne
features and then use learning models to classify code with or
without vulnerabilities. Due to the coarse code granularity, it
is difﬁcult to determine the exact location of the vulnerability.
The methods based on code similarity[20], [25] are difﬁcult to
detect vulnerabilities that are not caused by code duplication, and
the programs with similar vulnerable code are not necessarily
vulnerable, which leads to inaccurate results. For a CVE, we aim
to determine the boundary (e.g., the ﬁrst and the last vulnerable
versions) of all vulnerable versions in theversion tree (i.e., a
tree structure to organize all versions, with the major versions
in the trunk and minor versions in the branches, introduced in
Section IV). It is worth noting that we only pay attention to
the vulnerabilities speciﬁed by CVEs, not all vulnerabilities of a
version. Therefore, if a CVE vulnerability still exists in a version,
we call it a vulnerable version.
We conduct an in-depth large-scale analysis on the open-
source code of the released versions, and systematically evaluate
and determine the versions impacted by each CVE. For a given
CVE, we divide the problem space into three steps. First, we
determine the last vulnerable version in the version tree. Based
on our study, we ﬁnd that unpatched code does not necessarily
have a vulnerability, because it may have been ﬁxed in another
way (calledrepatching). Second, we determine the last vulnera-
ble version in each branch of the version tree. Third, some early
versions may have gone through many updates, which is the
reason forpartial matching(introduced in SectionII-B) between
patches and source code. Accordingly, we design methods to
identify the partial matching source code and provide more
reliable results for the vulnerabilities. Especially, we use both
patches and git logs to justify the ﬁrst version of the vulnerability.
Finally, our work will not only put forward a new idea to
justify theKnown Affected Software Conﬁgurationsof the NVD,
but also reveal the special behaviors in patching vulnerable
code.
Contributions. Based on the developer logs and patches,
our tool is dedicated to automatically generate a report with
justiﬁcations to correct the Known Affected Software Conﬁg-
urations of the NVD. Our work provides several contributions.
First, our method builds all the software versions into a version
tree according to their commit dependence. We can leverage
the version tree to improve the accuracy and efﬁciency of our
tool. By contrast, previous tools check each software version
separately, which is hard to verify the detection results when they
conﬂict with each other. Second, we propose a general method
using patches and developer log information to verify which
versions are really vulnerable and further determine the version
number boundaries of the CVE vulnerabilities in the version
tree, because developer logs provide more reliable evidence than
patches only. The phenomena of repatching and partial matching
are discovered and countermeasures are proposed. Finally, we
rectiﬁed 11, 827 incorrect reports of Linux Kernel, and con-
ﬁrmed that 94 patched versions lacked corresponding committed
records in the changelogs. Our method can be applied for other
open source software (e.g. Firefox, OpenSSL). In addition,
we compare our tool to two very representative vulnerability
detection tools using a number of versions randomly selected
from ﬁve widely used open-source projects as the testing dataset.
Our results show that these tools could not achieve high detection
accuracy while our tool achieved 94.3% precision and 95.6%
recall. Our work not only reports the incorrect vulnerability
information of the NVD, but also provides important insights
on such data sources for future vulnerability detection.
II. BACKGROUND
We ﬁrst introduce the background on security vulnerability
reporting mechanisms, and then describe several basic require-
ments for our tool.
A. Vulnerability Reporting
CVE and CVE-ID. CVE (Common Vulnerability Enumer-
ation) is a list of records for publicly known cybersecurity
vulnerabilities. Launched by MITRE in 1999 as a community
effort, today it is used in many cybersecurity products and
services from around the world. Each CVE record contains
an identiﬁcation number (CVE-ID) (e.g., “CVE-2021-3564”),
a description, at least one public reference[26]. When people
ﬁnd a new vulnerability, they can request and obtain a unique
CVE-ID from a CVE Numbering Authority (CNA)[27].
NVD. NVD (National Vulnerability Database), launched by
NIST (National Institute of Standards and Technology)[28],
is a repository of standard vulnerability management data
represented using the Secure Content Automation Protocol
(SCAP) [29]. Built upon and fully synchronized with the CVE
record List[26], the NVD in addition provides enhanced struc-
tural information for each record such as ﬁx information, severity
scores, and impact ratings in its vulnerability detail pages. After
the initial vulnerability report, the information of the NVD may
be manually updated[14]. For instance, for a new CVE, security
patches may not be available in the time of releasing the CVE,
but later on the links to the security patches can be added to its
NVD page.
Known Affected Software Conﬁgurations.Each vulnerability
in the NVD has a vulnerability detail page, which contains
a section calledKnown Affected Software Conﬁgurations(see
Fig. 1(a)). It is used to show which software or combinations
of software are considered vulnerable at the time of analysis.
Corresponding to a given CVE-ID, it reports a list of versions
impacted by the vulnerable source code. The NVD uses the
Common Platform Enumeration (CPE) 2.3 speciﬁcation when
creating these applicability statements and the matching CPE
URI[s]. Applicability statements are a way to communicate
which products are vulnerable in a relatively ﬂexible syntax[30].
This was designed primarily for machines to process and thus is
not easy for human readers to understand.
B. Basic Requirements
Our tool relies on both security patches and developer logs
to provide evidence of the vulnerability of a version, so that we
assume that security patches and developer logs are correct and
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 15,2026 at 04:05:42 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
