908 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON DEPENDABLE AND SECURE COMPUTING, VOL. 21, NO. 2, MARCH/APRIL 2024
which we will introduce in detail in SectionIV-D1.F o rad i f f
hunk where both ‘-’ and ‘+’ lines exist, our matching method
does not consider the ‘+’ lines of the diff hunk unless the ‘-’
lines in the diff hunk is a subset of the ‘+’ lines (‘+’ or ‘-’ preﬁx
omitted), and this type of diff hunk is generally used to change
the code position.
Changelog. A changelog is a log or record of all notable
changes (e.g., bug ﬁxes, security patching, new features, etc.)
made to a project (Fig.1(c) shows an example). Some open-
source projects include changelogs as one of the top-level ﬁles
in their distributions. Each changelog corresponds to one open-
source version, and one changelog is composed of multiple
git logs. Changelogs need to be written according to certain
speciﬁcation and its creation is a time-consuming manual pro-
cess [33]. It is worth noting that some versions of software do
not have changelogs, either because they were released before
the changelog writing speciﬁcation was formed, or because the
vendors simply did not write one. Thus, while we regard the
information recorded in the changelogs as ground truth in our
research, we do not assume the record list of changelogs for a
software project is complete.
Git Log. It is a log generated by the command “git log [<
options >][ < revision range >][ [ - ]< path > ...]” [34], and
it can be used to show project history[35], [36], [37], [38] and
search for speciﬁc changes. Fig.1(d) shows a part of the git
log list, which is a collection of git logs in chronological order.
Here each line represents a git log title, and the details recorded
in a git log include the commit-id, the commit time of patch,
diff hunks, the author and committer of this log (see Fig.1(e)).
A git log is a modiﬁcation record of the source code, which
is identiﬁed by a unique commit-id. Note that the developer
can make new git commits for reasons other than ﬁxing bugs
reported by CVEs; therefore, while each CVE-ID corresponds
to a commit-id, many commit-ids have nothing to do with CVEs.
Because git logs are recorded by the system program, we regard
the information recorded in the git logs as ground truth in our
research.
III. RESEARCH GOALS ANDCHALLENGES
Research Goal.Corresponding to a given CVE-ID, the Known
Affected Software conﬁgurations section in NVD reports a list
(or a set) of software versions impacted by the vulnerable source
code. Prior research[14], [15] (as well as our investigation) has
shown that such information may be inaccurate. We ﬁnd that
in most cases, the NVD includes in this section all versions
whose version numbers are below the “up to” version (the last
vulnerable version reported, see Fig.1(a)). Therefore, for each
CVE-ID, we choose the false positive rate and the false negative
rate as the performance metrics to quantify the inaccuracy of this
set. We use developer log as evidence toaccurately determine
which versions are truly affected by a given CVE-ID.F r o m
another perspective, for a CVE-ID, we determine the boundary
of vulnerable versions in the version tree that contains all the
versions.
Challenges. There are three main challenges in this research.
(C1) Lack of convincing evidences. To identify and justify
the exact CVE affected vulnerable program versions, the most
challenging task is to provide convincing evidences to the output
of the methods. The veriﬁcation by PoC(Proof of Concept) is the
most reliable, but not scalable and practical in our task. There
are different methods and source of information regarding to the
CVE affected versions, but they usually give conﬂicting results.
As software source codes are changing over time, vulnerabilities
are introduced, transformed, patched, and repatched with a new
patch. We observed that a CVE patch present in a software
version is neither a sufﬁcient nor a necessary condition to prove
that the version is ﬁxed respect to the CVE. In this article, we
assume that patches are correct and trustworthy. Therefore, if a
patch is present in the software version, we consider a software
version is ﬁxed; but if a patch is not present, we cannot decide if
a version is really affected by only depending on patch presence
test methods. (C2) Large scale of source codes of different
versions. Since the set affected by the vulnerability may cover
all published versions, how to efﬁciently and accurately identify
the vulnerability version set for a large scale of software versions
is a challenge. The traditional method is to check each software
version separately. However, regardless of static or dynamic
detection methods, with the continuous source code version
updates, the number of software versions becomes very large,
so the efﬁciency problem. (C3) Continuous transformation of
the source code. Due to the continuous update and release of
open source software versions, a vulnerability code may have
undergone many changes in some earlier versions, which leads
to incomplete matching between source code and the patch ﬁle
for newer versions. Traditional detection methods relying on
patch presence test are difﬁcult to accurately check such code
whether there are vulnerabilities in the partial matching codes.
Our Approaches to the Challenges.To overcome the chal-
lenge C1, we leverage the information contained in version tree
and developer logs because they contain ﬁrsthand and reliable
evidences for the state transition of the vulnerabilities, which
is presented in Sections IV-A, IV-B, and IV-D.F o rC 2 ,w e
construct a version tree and ﬁnd the boundary of the affected
versions in this tree collectively, instead of checking each version
separately, which is presented in SectionIV-Aand IV-C.F o rC 3 ,
We classify the different types of partial matching and trace the
developer logs to counter this challenge, which is described in
Section IV-D.
IV . RESEARCH METHODOLOGY
Overview of Our Method.Fig. 3 gives an overview of our
method, which consists of three steps. The required input in-
cludes the CVE-IDs for an open-source software project under
investigation, the set of open-source code for all its versions,
and the developer logs (including the set of changelogs and
the set of git logs corresponding to the CVE-IDs). The ﬁrst
step is to build the version tree and obtain a version number
set over which the vulnerability has been patched according
to the commit-ids recorded in the changelogs. Based on this
version set, the second step involves three different processing
directions: (R1) to determine the last vulnerable version number
in the trunk of the version tree, (R2) to determine the vulnerable
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 15,2026 at 04:05:42 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
