HE et al.: AUTOMATICALLY IDENTIFYING CVE AFFECTED VERSIONS WITH PATCHES AND DEVELOPER LOGS 911
the repatch after locating the previous commit-id in the title or
text body of git log, for example, the diff hunk of “repatch” of
CVE-2014-9715. We use it against thenf_conntrack_core.c
ﬁle to judge the existence of this vulnerability. Through the
above process we can accurately justify whether there is an
unpatched CVE vulnerability (i.e., without being repatched)
after the maximum committed version.
Next, we present our algorithm for determiningV upto with
our running example in Fig.4. Here,V4.0.4 is the highest version
of the committed version set. First, we determine whether the
unpatched code still exists in major versions afterV4.0.4 based
on exact matching. If it does not exist, it means the vulnerability
has been ﬁxed in all versions afterV4.0.4,s oV4.0.4 is regarded
as V upto(E). On the other hand, if unpatched code exists in
a later major version, sayV5.0, we will check if a repatch has
been applied to it to avoid false reporting. Speciﬁcally, we ﬁrst
check whether there is an unpatch status in the git log list of the
vulnerable ﬁle. if it does not exist, repatch cannot exist either,
so the last unpatched version will be regarded asV upto(I).
However, if unpatch exists, we will check if a repatch exists in
the git log list indexed by the same vulnerable ﬁle, the author or
the committer of the patch, and accordingly locate the diff hunk,
as described in the paragraph above. IfV5.0 has been repatched, it
does not have this vulnerability any more, soV4.0.4 is regarded
as V upto(E). On the contrary, if the last unpatched version,
say V5.0.3, has not been repatched, and it will be regarded as
V upto(I). Therefore, we accurately determined the boundary of
the vulnerable versions on the far right of the version tree.
C. Determine the Last Vulnerable V ersion in Each Branch (R2)
The committed version set output from R1 of our tool does not
give us the complete knowledge on the vulnerable versions. First,
some branches in the version tree may correspond to non-long-
term stable versions[39], and they are no longer maintained.
Therefore, even though the versions in these branches are still
vulnerable with respect to a CVE, they are no longer patched.
In other words, although not covered in the committed version
set, there may be vulnerable versions in these branches. Second,
some versions may have no changelogs submitted, so they have
slipped out from our detection, because our tool uses changelogs
as the input to generate the committed version set.
To address the problem, intuitively we can check each version
against the patch. This is clearly inefﬁcient and unscalable.
Instead, we leverage the following heuristics: (1) in each version
branch, the release time of a minor versionVi.j.k must be later
than the major versionVi.j or the earlier minor versionVi.j.k−1,
(2) a changelog states which vulnerabilities it has ﬁxed and
it is released together with the current software version. For
example, ifV4.14.177 in Fig.5 is a committed version (because
its changelog states the vulnerability has been ﬁxed), the vul-
nerability must not exist inV4.14.178 and the other later minor
version. The similar examples includeV4.19.116, V5.4.33 etc.
Let us denote the disclosure time of the CVE asTCV E.A s
reported by Li et al.[40], CVE publication time in NVD is not the
same as CVE disclosure time, but the median difference is only
Fig. 5. The relationship between CVE-ID committed time and version release
time.
Fig. 6. Look for the upper boundary of the vulnerability in the version tree.
one month, so that we can use CVE publication time to approx-
imate its disclosure time. When the CVE is released, it may or
may not have patches available. We useTCV Eto quickly identify
the potentially vulnerable versions in each branch. Speciﬁcally,
for each branch, we ﬁrst compareTE, which is the release time
of its last versionVi.j.E, with TCV E.I f TE <T CV E, that is,
version Vi.j.E was released before the CVE, we then determine
whether Vi.j.E contains the vulnerable code by matching against
the patch. If it is an exact match (not patched), we directly take
Vi.j.E as V i.j.U (I) of this branch. If it is a partial match, we will
use the method in the next subsection to verify whetherVi.j.E
has the vulnerability. Otherwise, we will look for the boundary
in the earlier versions backward,If the boundary does not exist,
then Vi.j.E is considered asV i.j.U . Otherwise we refer to the last
unpatched version asV i.j.U , and verify that the patching record
of the version following the boundary version is missing from the
changelog. Therefore, we accurately determined the boundary
of the vulnerable versions in each branch of the version tree.
D. Determine the First Vulnerable V ersion Number of CVE-ID
(R3)
For a given CVE-ID, once we discoverV from and V upto,t h e
boundary containing all the vulnerable versions is determined.
However, it is very challenging to identify the ﬁrst vulnerable
version V from . On the one hand, we should not immediately
label the minimum committed version reported by changelog
(e.g., V3.0.6 in Fig.4)a sV from , because early versions might
not have the corresponding changelog or the changelog was
incomplete. On the other hand, open-source code versions are
continuously updated and released and for some early versions,
the code related to the CVE vulnerability may have gone through
many changes, so that they can not be matched exactly with the
patches. Recall that it is apartial matchwhen a diff hunk does
not completely match the corresponding source code. In theory,
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 15,2026 at 04:05:42 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
