912 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON DEPENDABLE AND SECURE COMPUTING, VOL. 21, NO. 2, MARCH/APRIL 2024
Fig. 7. Examples of partial matching code (The left side shows the diff hunk
(DH) of each CVE patch, and the right side shows the corresponding source
code fragment (SF)).
the software versions that are partially matched with patches
may or may not be vulnerable.
In order to leverage the information of partial matches, we ﬁrst
classify partial matches into three categories, and then we design
the method to locate the partially matching code fragments based
on the diff hunk(s) of a given CVE. Finally we justify whether
the code has the CVE vulnerability based on git logs and partial
matches so as to determine the ﬁrst vulnerable versionV from .
1) Classiﬁcation and Detection of Partial Matches:By ana-
lyzing the partial matches in a large number of early versions,
we summarize the code features into the following three cate-
gories, and then we detect and locate the matching source code
fragments according to their categories. For ease of presentation,
we introduce a few notations. We useDH to denote a Diff Hunk
composed ofsub and oth, Fun to denote the vulnerable Function,
and SF to denote the Source code Fragment in the CVE-speciﬁed
ﬁle corresponding to theDH.I nF i g .7(a) and (b), “Function()”
in the DH (also in SF) represents the Fun, and in Fig. 7(c),
“FunctionB1()” of theDH represents theFun.
Case 1. The SF only partially matches oth of the DH.A s
shown in Fig.7(a), corresponding to theoth code in theDH, SF
does not call funcD1 and it has “return err” instead of the “break”
statement in the “if(err)” branch. Moreover, it calls funcD2,
which has a different name from funcD1 inoth. In this case,
SF contains all the code insub.
Case 2. The SF partially matches thesub of theDH.A ss h o w n
in Fig.7(b),t h eSF lacks “int n” and “if” statements of theDH.
For oth, SF may not contain the entireoth, but it contains at least
one oth and onesub statement.
Case 3. The SF only partially matches the contextual func-
tions of theDH,b u tt h eSF contains the entiresub.A ss h o w ni n
Fig. 7(c), contextual functions A1 and C1 are used to locate the
vulnerable function B1 inDH, but they are named A2 and C2
in theSF. Although the functions B1 and B2 also have different
parameters, they might still be the same vulnerable function.
For example, for CVE-2013-1959, the function used to locate
Fun is “set_cred_user_ns”, but this function does not exist inSF
before the Linux kernel version 3.8. For CVE-2017-14991, the
Fun is “sg_ﬁll_request_table”, but before Linux kernel version
4.13, the function inSF is “sg_ioctl”, and they are the same
vulnerable code in different functions. For CVE-2017-8069, the
contextual function of theDH is “async_set_reg_cb”, but it is
the “ctrl_callback” function in theSF in Linux kernel version
3.2.86.
Given the Diff Hunk(DH) of a CVE, we will detect and locate
all the Source code Fragments (SFs) in the early versions for
three partial match cases, respectively. The high level idea of
our algorithm is as follows. In all three cases, there is at least
one line of matched code inSF with that inDH. Therefore, we
use one or two lines of matched code as the anchor point to
select three blocks of code in the function(Fun) of the source
code. Let us take the example of only one line of Matched Code
(called MC), and assume there are L1 and L2 lines of code before
MC and after MC, respectively, in theDH. To locateSF,i nt h e
Fun of the source code, we select L1 and L2 lines of code before
Matched Code(MC) and after MC as the ﬁrst and the third block,
respectively while MC serves as the second block. When there
are two or more lines of matched code, the code in the source
code between the ﬁrst MC and the last MC forms the second
block while the ﬁrst and third blocks are selected in the same
way as previously. The detailed algorithm is presented in the
supplemental document(available online).
2) Justify the Vulnerable V ersions by Git Logs:After we lo-
cated all the Source code Fragments(SFs) in the partial matches,
we will justify whether theseSFs contain the vulnerability with
the help of git log information. We propose anautomatic log
tracing method to trace the corresponding git logs. We illustrate
our idea through the example in Fig.8. Here, with respect to
a CVE, the versions betweenV1.0 and V2.1 shared the same
(partial matching) source code fragmentSF3. After an update
on SF3, the versions betweenV2.2 and V2.5 shared the same
SF2. After another update onSF2, the versions starting from
V2.6 shared the (exact matching)SF1.L e tsf-diff represent the
difference between the SFs of two versions, and it can be
generated through a diff tool[41]. Since each update resulted
in a git log that recorded the difference in the form of a Diff
Hunk, we can use each sf-diff to traverse every git log in the
git log list whose release time was earlier thanTCV E, and ﬁnd
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 15,2026 at 04:05:42 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
