HE et al.: AUTOMATICALLY IDENTIFYING CVE AFFECTED VERSIONS WITH PATCHES AND DEVELOPER LOGS 913
Fig. 8. Some earlier major versions that are continuously updated.V2.2 to
V2.5 have the same partial matching vulnerable code (red dotted frame).
the corresponding git log by exactly matching the sf-diff against
the DHs in the git logs. Then, we manually use log information
(e.g., description, commit-id) to accurately determine whether
the current version is vulnerable. This process is done for each
sf-diff in the backward temporal order. Note that a sf-diff may
consist of multiple consecutive diff hunks, and the diff hunks
may be recorded in multiple git logs.
Proper commit messages with information about what is being
merged and why they merge are not always logged[42]. There-
fore, our justiﬁcation result for a partially matching software
version can be divided into three types: Yes, No, Probable.
Among them, “Yes” means it is a vulnerable version because
there is detailed information in the git logs, such as the exploit
of Proof-of-Concept (POC) or the dependency relationship of
the vulnerability, which is established in the form of text or
commit-id. “No” means it is a non vulnerable version because the
CVE-related Source fragments (SFs) does not exist. “Probable”
means it is a suspicious version because we have no sufﬁcient
information. It is worth noting that, in order to ensure the in-
tegrity of the results, although some partially matching versions
need to be reviewed by human experts to determine whether the
code is vulnerable, the proportion of these versions is small and
the cost is not high. We will report the number of CVEs/commit
that require manual inspection and the total man-hours spend in
the next evaluation section.
We use one example to illustrate the idea. According to
description of CVE-2011-2521, there is a vulnerability in func-
tion ”x86_assign_hw_event”. However, when our tool checks
the patch, many earlier versions are partially matched. By log
tracing based on the commit-id of the patch, it is found that this
vulnerability was originally introduced from the commit
41bf498, and patched twice afterwards because the ﬁrst patch
was not complete. This example demonstrates how the log
tracing helps to identify the ﬁrst version of the vulnerability,
3) The Method to Find the First Vulnerable V ersion:Our
algorithm for determining V from is as following. First, for
a CVE-ID, we obtain the matching results (exact or partial
matching) by checking eachmajor version before the minimum
committed version in the version tree (e.g.,V3.0.6 in Fig.9). If all
the matching results are exact matches, then the ﬁrst vulnerable
version is the earliest version with exact matching. Otherwise,
Fig. 9. Identify the ﬁrst vulnerable version in the version tree.
TABLE I
WEBSITE DISTRIBUTION OF PATCHES
we determine V from by the log tracing and vulnerability jus-
tiﬁcation methods introduced in SectionIV-D2. We illustrate
the process for determiningV from with our example in Fig.8.
In the ﬁrst step, we ﬁnd the ﬁrst exact matching major version
before V3.0.I fi ti sVroot, then Vroot is V from . If it is not, the
ﬁrst exact matching version, sayV2.6, will be regarded asV from
as long as the vulnerable ﬁle does not exist in the early version
V2.5. Otherwise, in the second step, if the last partial matching
version V2.5 does not contain the vulnerability or its vulnerability
status cannot be veriﬁed by us,V2.6 is regarded asV from .I f
the vulnerability exists, the versions beforeV2.5 with the same
partial matching code are all regarded as vulnerable versions. In
the backward order, through log tracing, eventually we will be
able to identify the ﬁrst vulnerable version and label it asV from .
V. EVA L UAT I O N
We ﬁrst brieﬂy introduce the implementation of our system,
and then evaluate the effectiveness of our algorithms via stan-
dard metrics such as precision and recall. Let TP be the number
of true vulnerabilities detected (true-positives), FP be the num-
ber of false vulnerabilities detected (false-positives), and FN be
the number of true vulnerabilities undetected (false-negatives).
The metric precision= TP/(TP + FP) reﬂects the correctness
among the detected positives. The metric recall=TP/(TP + FN)
reﬂects the completeness of the detected positives.
A. Implementation
We implemented our system in Python 3.6.0. Our experi-
ments ran on a PC with Intel CPU core i5-8265 U operating at
1.80 GHz and 8 GB RAM. The implementation consists ofData
Crawler, Vulnerable V ersion Finder, Log Tracer, and Result
Generator. Data Crawler connects to the speciﬁed URLs to
collect and preprocess software packages (such as Linux kernel,
Qemu, OpenSSL), CVE database, patches, and Changelogs etc.
Vulnerable Version Finder implements the algorithms in R1,
R2 and R3 to ﬁnd the ﬁrst(‘from’) and last(‘upto’) vulnerable
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 15,2026 at 04:05:42 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
