HE et al.: AUTOMATICALLY IDENTIFYING CVE AFFECTED VERSIONS WITH PATCHES AND DEVELOPER LOGS 917
TABLE III
ACCURACY (I.E., TRUE POSITIVE,F ALSE POSITIVE AND FALSE NEGATIVE) OF REDEBUG, VUDDYAND OUR METHOD
report the detailed results of 50 (out of 69 in total) vulnerabilities,
including the version number of the source code, CVE-ID,
vulnerability type, patch type, error type, etc.
VI. RELATED WORK
Reliability of the NVD. Quality issues in vulnerability
databases, such as the NVD, have been noted and studied
before. It is shown that the CVSS metric[11], [44] is more
suitable for enterprise software products, rather than personal
software products. Nguyen et al.[18] conducted an empirical
experiment on the reliability of the vulnerable Chrome versions
in the NVD. They use the Chrome vulnerabilities with the
bug-ﬁxes IDs to manually verify the inaccuracy of the NVD
report, but they cannot handle the situation without the bug IDs.
Dong et al. [14] analyzed a large number of inconsistencies
by extracting software names and software versions in public
security vulnerability reports, but they did not provide a practical
solution to justify the incorrect software versions of the NVD.
Anwar et al.[15] focused on the inconsistencies between the
entries of the NVD and the CVE, and they explored methods
for rectifying the vulnerability’s publication date, CWE class,
CVSS rating, and the affected CPE information of the NVD,
but we aim to use develop log to quantify the inaccuracy of the
Know Affected Software Versions of the NVD.
Vulnerability Detection.Security patches are released to dis-
cover and ﬁx the vulnerabilities that have been released. This is
also the most critical process for managing security systems.
Using patches to discover vulnerabilities in the system has
always been the focus of research in the security ﬁeld[45].A
vulnerability detection system with a high false positive rate or a
high false negative rate is unusable. Many researchers[20], [25],
[32], [43] have studied the use of security patches for source
code vulnerability detection. However, only based on patches,
the error rate is still high. Li proposed VulDeePecker[23] using
RNN training on code snippets related to library/API function
calls to detect improper calls. The dataset they used in their
work tried to compare with VUDDY , but no false positives
of VUDDY were found. Further, considering silent security
patches, Xiao et al.[46] proposed MVP and they enriched the
dataset with commits obtained from their industrial collaborator,
but such datasets were not publicly accessible. The methods
proposed in[47], [48] use trees and graphs as the representation
methods for detecting vulnerabilities, and they cannot capture
the exact nuance of vulnerabilities, so than they are not suitable
for determining which vulnerable versions are really affected by
CVEs.
Reproducing Vulnerabilities.Reproducing a vulnerability is
the most convincing evidence for a vulnerable version. Her-
cules [49] is based on symbolic execution to generate input
examples to crash the software at the speciﬁed location. Sem-
fuzz [50] makes use of CVE reports and Linux git logs to
generate PoC exploits. Many research proposes the techniques of
generating patch that ﬁxes the vulnerability based on examples,
while Huang et. al.[51] propose a property-based method to
generate vulnerability patches, but their method is dependent on
experts to specify the properties. As claimed in[17] reproduc-
ing a vulnerability requires information such as conﬁgurations,
trigger method, PoC, as well as a lot of manual work of experts,
meanwhile these information are usually incomplete or unavail-
able. It is very challenging especial for our task with a large sale
of software versions.
Fuzzing combines symbolic execution and constraint solving
to detect vulnerabilities. Cassez et al.[21] use a static analysis
tool for intermediate representation based on LLVM to check
whether there is a run of a speciﬁed error block and reach the
intermediate representation, which is mainly used to detect three
types of vulnerabilities: zero error, pointer overﬂow, and dead
code. In general, it is hard to perform directed fuzzing on Linux
kernel. On the one hand, entering the kernel layer depends on
the call of the application layer, which is equivalent to writing an
application layer call for each CVE. On the other hand, Linux
kernel is a large-scale system, which means that it has a very
large number of conditional branch instructions. It is difﬁcult for
fuzzing to ﬁnd the code where the diff hunk is located. Therefore,
this type of methods are very expensive to employ in the context
of vulnerability detection.
VII. DISCUSSION
Our method has several assumptions which may limit its ap-
plication. First, developer logs and patches may be unavailable.
Second, the software packages must be open-sourced. Third,
although we propose log tracing to reduce the search space, the
partial matching method still requires human experts to review
some commits to determine whether the code is vulnerable, but
the cost of this process is quite minor. In order to overcome
these limitations, future work is needed. For the problem of
unavailable patches, an approach is to identify and generate the
patch from the respective software versions. If the source code
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 15,2026 at 04:05:42 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
