910 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON DEPENDABLE AND SECURE COMPUTING, VOL. 21, NO. 2, MARCH/APRIL 2024
version V i.j.U in each version branch,R3 is to ﬁnd theactual
last versionV upto of the entire version tree, which could be later
than theupto version reported in NVD.
Generally, there are one or more patches to ﬁx a CVE. In
most cases, a CVE-ID corresponds to one git log, and a git log
is identiﬁed by a commit-id. But sometimes there are more than
one commit-id to ﬁx a CVE when there are several patches for
the CVE. As long as the changed code (vulnerability ﬁxes, bug
ﬁxes, etc.) is submitted, git logs will be created. Therefore, each
patched version is uniquely identiﬁed by a commit-id or several
commit-ids. We ﬁrst obtain the commit-ids corresponding to
the CVE-ID, and then explore the changelog information. A
changelog corresponds to the release of a new version, and it
records all modiﬁcations to the previous version. Therefore,
a changelog typically records many different git logs, so it is
shorthand format for git logs. Although each change log is not
completely consistent with the writing structure of a git log,
there is no difference in key content information such as the
commit-ids. If all commit-ids of a CVE are included in the
changelog, it indicates that the CVE vulnerability has been
patched in the current version. Thus, we use the commit-ids
located by CVE-ID to traverse all changelogs available to obtain
the committed (i.e., patched) version set. We regard them as the
known patched versions.
As a running example, let us assume the three versions in
green dashed circles in Fig.4 form the committed version set of
this CVE-ID, in whichV3.0.6 and V4.0.4 are the minimum and
maximum committed version, respectively. However, not every
branch corresponds to a committed version, and the reason will
be introduced in SectionIV-C.
B. Determine the Last Vulnerable V ersion of CVE-ID (R1)
As the maximum committed version recorded by the changel-
ogs, canV4.0.4 be used asVu p t oof this CVE-ID? Is the same
vulnerability deﬁnitely gone afterV4.0.4? The answer isno.
In this section, We will combine developer logs and patches to
determine Vu p t o. To make it easier to understand, we ﬁrst give
two examples to illustrate the problem. During our research, we
ﬁnd an interesting phenomenon: starting from a certain version
after the maximum committed version, the code may be restored
to its previous unpatched state. Let us take CVE-2014-9715 as an
example. The reason for its existence is that insufﬁciently large
data type was used for certain extension data, which allows local
users to cause a denial of service. From changelogs, we know that
its maximum committed version isV3.14.5. However, we ﬁnd that
starting fromV4.12, the code returned to the original unpatched
state. According to the git log of CVE-2014-9715, this patch
solves thedenial of servicevulnerability by reducing the size of
the “ecache extension”. However,in its git log, the committers
regarded that the previous patch released three years ago did not
ﬁx this vulnerability well. Therefore, they restored the code to its
unpatched state, and put forward the method of “compile-time
assertion” to repatch the vulnerability. This illustrates the case
that although the code is unpatched, the vulnerability corre-
sponding to this CVE-ID no longer exists. In another example
with CVE-2015-8558, unpatched code also reappeared in the
version after the maximum committed version. Similarly, from
the description of the log information, the developers said that
they used a new approach to patch the previous vulnerability,
different from the ﬁrst patch.
Patches are developed and used to ﬁx bugs. However,
some patches are correct but do not perform as good as ex-
pected(correct but not good), or do not ﬁx the bugs com-
pletely(incomplete), or introduce new bugs(wrong). Conse-
quently, the earlier committed patches may be totally unpatched
or patially unptached, and then newer patches are commited
(“repatch”). According to our study, the repathes is an inevitable
issues through all versions of Linux Kernel and the number of
repatches is signiﬁcant. In order to achieve high precision of
identifying the affected versions, it is important to consider the
phenomenon, otherwise, the errors are non-negligible and not
acceptable. Our tool is based on the assumption of correctness
of patches, so that we only consider repatches that the earlier
patches are correct, then unpatched totally or partially, ﬁnnaly
repatched with better patches. We do not consider wrong or
incomplete patches.
For a given CVE-ID, patch-based detection[19], [20] will
mistake the above repatch cases as “vulnerability reappearance”,
so how do we verify whether the unpatched code has a real
vulnerability? We already know that the information in the
changelog is sometimes incomplete, so it is not enough to rely
only on it. For example, for CVE-2018-21008, the NVD report
shows that the last vulnerable version is 4.16.6, and the maxi-
mum committed version based on the changelogs is 4.14.166,
but there are still unpatched versions after 4.16.6. Our solution is
to use both the patches and developer logs to accurately identify
the unpatched code. In the case of repatch, our research found
that it always includes the following two operations in the git
log: (1) unpatch, consisting of complete unpatch and partial
unpatch. Complete unpatch restores the previous unpatched state
and changing the ‘-’ in diff hunk to ‘+’ and ‘+’ to ‘-’, which is
an inverse process of patching. Patial unpatch is a partial inverse
process of patching. It is similar to complete unpatch except that
it only includes part of the diff hunk. (2)repatch, applying a new
patch to the unpatched code.
We cannot easily locate the diff hunks of repatched code
through a CVE because a repatch is not released as a new
CVE. Fortunately, the git log of a repatch clearly and accurately
describes which previous patch(es) is(are) replaced by including
the commmit-id of the previous git log in the title or the text
body of the new git log for the repatch. We notice that the two
operations of repatch,unpatch and repatch, may be carried out
in one commit, resulting in a single git log. Compared with a
previous patch, the location of a repatch may be the same code
block in the same ﬁle, such as the repatch of CVE-2017-7477.
It can also ﬁx code blocks in different locations of the same ﬁle,
such as the repatch of CVE-2018-5873. It may also ﬁx code
blocks in different ﬁles, such as the repatch of CVE-2014-9715.
The two operations of repatch may also be carried out in two
separate commits, resulting in two different git logs. The git
log for the repatch operation can be located in the same git
log list indexed by the same vulnerable ﬁle, the author, or the
committer of the patch. Again, we can get the diff hunks of
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 15,2026 at 04:05:42 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
