HE et al.: AUTOMATICALLY IDENTIFYING CVE AFFECTED VERSIONS WITH PATCHES AND DEVELOPER LOGS 909
Fig. 3. Overview of our approach with three major steps numbered from 1 to 3.
version of each version branch and (R3) to determine the ﬁrst
vulnerable version. To ensure the accuracy of the results, in this
step, we need address some special problems, such as solving
the vulnerability reappearance problem, using developer logs to
detect whether there are vulnerabilities in the partial matching
source code. Finally, we compare the vulnerable version set of
our tool against the vulnerable version set accoding to the NVD,
and report the error rate of the NVD set. Among them, if there is
a CVE vulnerability in a certain version but not reported in the
NVD, it is a false negative case. If a certain version has no CVE
vulnerability but is reported in the NVD, it is a false positive
case.
A. Build V ersion Tree and Acquire Committed V ersion Set
Software versions are published in git as tags. Every tag
has its commit log in which parent commits are recorded. We
can build the version tree by recursively traversing from the
commit logs of versions to its parent and grand parent commit
logs. However, there is a common protocol to arrange versions.
Taking the Linux operating system as an example, the team
publicly announced the types of versions on the Linux kernel
ofﬁcial website, including main branch version (Mainline), sta-
ble version and long-term version. The main branch version is
the starting point version of each vertical branch in the version
tree, which introduces all new functions based on the previous
main branch version. From the main branch version, new stable
versions are released later one by one, which form the trunk of
the version tree. Based on this protocol, we can build the version
tree for Linux kernel by digits in its version. Next we brieﬂy
introduce a few notations about the version tree and give an
example. We refer to the overall structure of the software release
versions as aversion tree, with the ﬁrst version as the root node
Vroot.F i g .4 shows an example version tree with version 1.0
Fig. 4. Version tree: structural model of source code release versions. A red
triangular node represents a vulnerable version, a red triangular node in green
dotted circle represents a known unpatched version, a blue node represents a
version with unknown status.R1,R 2,R 3 indicate the three directions in which
we are looking for other vulnerable versions.
as Vroot. In the version tree, nodes,Vi.j, with two digit version
numbers (e.g., versions 2.6 and 4.0) are calledmajor versions,
and nodesVi.j.k with three digit version numbers (e.g., versions
3.3.5 and 5.0.4) are calledminor versions, and they are located
in the branches of the corresponding major versions. For the
version branch ofVi.j, we refer to the end of the branch (i.e., its
largest minor version) asVi.j.E (e.g., version 3.3.22 in Fig.4).
In addition, we useV i.j.k to denote a vulnerable version, and
V i.j.U is the last (or upto) vulnerable version in the branch of
Vi.j.W ea l s ou s eV i.j.k(E) (‘E’ means “excluding”) to denote
the vulnerable versionimmediately beforeVi.j.k, whereVi.j.k is
not vulnerable (i.e., patched). Finally, foreach reported vulnera-
bility (CVE-ID), we useV from and V upto to denote its ﬁrst and
last vulnerable versions in the entire version tree, respectively.
Speciﬁcally, as shown in Fig.4, for a given CVE-ID, we will
search the other vulnerable versions in the version tree in three
directions R1,R 2,R 3. R1 is the direction (process) to ﬁnd the
ﬁrst vulnerable versionV from , R2 is to ﬁnd the last vulnerable
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 15,2026 at 04:05:42 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
