HE et al.: AUTOMATICALLY IDENTIFYING CVE AFFECTED VERSIONS WITH PATCHES AND DEVELOPER LOGS 907
Fig. 1. Examples of vulnerability and change reporting systems.
trustworthy, but only security patches or only developer logs are
not enough to decide if a software version is affected by a CVE
(incomplete).
Security Patch. Patches are a set of code changes to soft-
ware or operating systems (OS). They aim to solve security
vulnerabilities in programs or products. Software vendors may
release updates to ﬁx performance vulnerabilities, or to provide
enhanced security features[31]. A CVE-ID may correspond to
a single patch or multiple patches, and we call each vulnerable
code block in a patch as a diff hunk. A diff hunk is identiﬁed by
one @@ statement in the patch (see Fig.1(b)), and it corresponds
to a source code block waiting to be patched. For ease of
explanation, we deﬁne all the lines without preﬁx in a diff hunk
as an oth, and all the ‘-’ lines assub. A diff hunk consists of
four parts: the vulnerable function (including its parameters),
Fig. 2. Examples of exact and partial matching.
oth (excluding the comments), the ‘-’ line(s) and the ‘+’ line(s).
Among them, the ‘-’ line and the ‘+’ line represent the lines of
source code that need to be deleted and added, respectively, and
oth is used tolocate the ‘-’ line and the ‘+’ line. For example, the
diff hunk in Fig.1(b) represents that the io _ add_buffers from the
/fs/io _ uring.c ﬁle is a vulnerable function, and this vulnerability
is patched by deleting the ‘-’ line from the vulnerable source
code and adding the ‘+’ line. The patch-based vulnerability
detection [19], [20], [32] relies on a context-based patch method,
which extracts the lines from the diff hunks of the patches for
identiﬁcation of vulnerable source code.
There are two types of methods for matching a diff hunk with
the source code. Theexact matchmethod means that the string
consisting of ‘-’ line(s) andoth speciﬁed by the diff hunk must
exactly match the source code, and the code sequence is also the
same, as shown in Fig.2(a). We can see that the oth lines include
six positioning start and end statements. The two ’+’ lines do not
appear in the source code, which means this code is unpatched.
Note that for a diff hunk consisting of only ‘+’ lines andoth,t h e
exact match means the corresponding ‘+’ lines andoth exactly
match the source code which has been patched, because ‘+’ lines
are new code, which does not exist in the unpatched source code
at the corresponding locations.
The second method is calledpartial match, which matches
the source code that does not have all ‘-’ lines andoth in the
diff hunk, as shown in Fig.2(b). We can see that the oth lines
include lines 4-6 and 14-18 in the patch ﬁle, which match the
correspondent lines in the source code, but line 15 in the patch
does not match line 10 in the source code. There is no partial
match for the diff hunk consisting of only ‘+’ lines andoth,
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 15,2026 at 04:05:42 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
