===== PAGE 001 =====

IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SOFTW ARE ENGINEERING, VOL. 50, NO. 11, NOVEMBER 2024 3037
Enhancing Bug-Inducing Commit Identification:
A Fine-Grained Semantic Analysis Approach
Lingxiao Tang ,C h a oN i , Qiao Huang , and Lingfeng Bao
Abstract—The SZZ algorithm and its variants have been
extensively utilized for identifying bug-inducing commits based
on bug-fixing commits. However, these algorithms face challenges
when there are no deletion lines in the bug-fixing commit.
Previous studies have attempted to address this issue by tracing
back all lines in the block that encapsulates the added lines.
However, this method is too coarse-grained and suffers from
low precision. To address this issue, we propose a novel method
in this paper called S
EM-SZZ, which is based on fine-grained
semantic analysis. Initially, w e observe that a significant number
of bug-inducing commits can be identified by tracing back
the unmodified lines near added lines, resulting in improved
precision and F1-score. Building on this observation, we conduct
a more fine-grained semantic analysis. We begin by performing
program slicing to extract the program part near the added
lines. Subsequently, we compare the program’s states between
the previous version and the current version, focusing on data
flow and control flow differences based on the extracted program
part. Finally, we extract statements contributing to the bug
based on these differences and utilize them to locate bug-
inducing commits. We also extend our approach to fit the scenario
where the bug-fixing commits contain deleted lines. Experimental
results demonstrate that S
EM-SZZ outperforms the state-of-the-
art methods in identifying bug-inducing commits, regardless of
whether the bug-fixing commit contains deleted lines.
Index Terms—SZZ algorithm, data flow analysis, control flow
analysis.
I. I NTRODUCTION
M
ODERN software development evolves through a series
of commits. When developers make commits, they save
changes made to a set of files within a repository. Each commit
Received 7 April 2024; revised 18 September 2024; accepted 22 Septem-
ber 2024. Date of publication 9 October 2024; date of current version
14 November 2024. This research was supported in part by the National Key
Research and Development Program of China under Grant 2021YFB2701102,
in part by the National Science Foundation of China under Grant 62372398,
Grant 62302447, Grant 62202419, Grant 72342025, and Grant U20A20173,
in part by the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities
under Grant 226-2022-00064, and in part by Zhejiang Provincial Natural
Science Foundation of China under G rant LY24F020008. Recommended for
acceptance by C. Treude (Corresponding author: Lingfeng Bao.)
Lingxiao Tang and Lingfeng Bao are with the State Key Laboratory
of Blockchain and Data Security , Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310007,
China, and also with Hangzhou High-Tech Zone (Binjiang) Blockchain
and Data Security Research Ins titute, Hangzhou 310052, China (e-mail:
12421037@zju.edu.cn; lingfengbao@zju.edu.cn).
Chao Ni is with the State Key Laboratory of Blockchain and Data Security,
Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310007, Chin a (e-mail: chaoni@zju.edu.cn).
Qiao Huang is with the School of Co mputer Science and Technology,
Zhejiang Gongshang University, Hangzhou 310018, China (e-mail: qiao-
huang@zjgsu.edu.cn).
Digital Object Identifi er 10.1109/TSE.2024.3468296
captures the state of the repository as a snapshot at a specific
moment. To facilitate the management of commits, version con-
trol systems such as Git have been developed. Among various
types of commits, bug-inducing commits [1] hold particular
significance, as they provide essential insights into the origins
and evolution of bugs. Consequently, researchers have devoted
additional attention to them. Prior studies have been conducted
to understand the characteristics of bug-inducing commits [2],
[3], [4], [5] and introduced numerous techniques to identify
them [6], [7], [8], [9]. Building upon these identified bug-
inducing commits, researchers have also proposed methods for
Just-in-Time defect detection[9], [10], [11], [12] and automatic
program repair [13], [14]. They have also worked on analyzing
factors for software quality [15], [16], and pinpointing affected
software versions of a vulnerability [17].
Currently, the primary approaches for identifying bug-
inducing commits are the original SZZ algorithm [6] and its
variants. The original SZZ algorithm was introduced by Sliwer-
ski, Zimmermann, and Zeller in 2005 [6]. They assume that the
deleted lines in the bug-fixing commit introduce the bug. Thus,
the algorithm operates by tracing back the deleted lines within
bug-fixing commits. This tracing process aims to identify the
commits that last modified those deleted lines. These identified
commits are then marked as bug-inducing commits. Although
the original SZZ algorithm has achieved great success, it suffers
from low precision because bug-fixing commits may contain
noise (e.g., blank lines, comments, and meta-changes) that is
unrelated to bug fixes. To address this issue, numerous variants
have been introduced[7], [8], [9]. Typically, these variants make
use of static methods to filter out noise in bug-fixing commits.
Additionally, deep learning methods have also been explored to
further improve precision [18].
However, previous research shows that the abovementioned
methods fail to address the challenge posed by bug-fixing com-
mits with only added lines [19]. When it happens, tools like git
blame or annotate cannot identify deleted lines to link them
with bug-inducing commits. Recent research has highlighted
the prevalence of these kinds of commits in datasets, which
significantly impacts the recall of SZZ algorithms. For instance,
a dataset collected by Rezk et al. [19], containing 12 Apache
projects, revealed that the highest percentage of such instances
reached 11.72%. Further investigations, such as the study con-
ducted by Lyu et al. [20], have demonstrated even higher oc-
currences of bug-fixing commits only containing added lines.
Lyu et al.’s dataset reported that 17.46% of bug-fixing commits
0098-5589 © 2024 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but repub lication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:26:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 002 =====

3038 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SOFTW ARE ENGINEERING, VOL. 50, NO. 11, NOVEMBER 2024
are solely comprised of added lines, indicating that these kinds
of commits are more prevalent than previous findings.
Despite the prevalence of such commits and their negative
impact on SZZ algorithms, few methods have been proposed to
mitigate this issue, let alone evaluating them with a developer-
informed oracle. To the best of our knowledge, the A-SZZ
algorithm, proposed by Sahal et al. [21], is the main method
intended to address this challenge. This algorithm operates by
first identifying added lines, then locating the block encompass-
ing these additions, and finally tracing back all lines within
the block. However, our experimental results reveal that this
algorithm suffers from significantly low precision, rendering
it impractical for real-world use. Researchers [19] have pro-
posed enhancements to the A-SZZ algorithm. However, these
improvements are constrained to specific scenarios, such as
method override, logging operations, and class expansions, lim-
iting their applicability. Furthermore, they have not been eval-
uated under a developer-informed oracle and their evaluation
lacks reliability.
In this paper, we present a novel approach called S
EM-SZZ to
tackle this issue. We conducted a study to e xplore the position
of unmodified lines that could be traced back to identify bug-
inducing commits. The results of this study revealed that in
most cases if a bug-inducing commit could be found by tracing
back unmodified lines within a function, it could typically be
identified by tracing back only the two unmodified lines near-
est the added lines, rather than tracing back the entire block
encapsulating the added lines.
Building upon these findings, we further refined our ap-
proach by incorporating techniques from previous studies [7],
[8] to filter out noise in the unmodified lines, such as blank
lines, comments, and meta-changes. Despite these refinements
that resulted in significantly higher precision compared to the
A-SZZ algorithm, they still suffered from low precision.
To further enhance precision, we conduct a more fine-grained
analysis. We begin by performing static program slicing to
extract program parts relevant to the bug. Then, we collect
and compare the states of the two versions of the program.
One version is the most recent commit previous to the bug-
fixing commit, while the other is the bug-fixing commit itself.
This process incorporates data flow analysis and control flow
analysis. Based on this analysis, we aim to identify which set of
statements in the previous version contributed to the bug. Sub-
sequently, when locating the bug-inducing commit, we traced
back from the bug-fixing commit to identify the earliest commit
that contains all these buggy statements, designating it as the
bug-inducing commit.
Compared to previous methods, S
EM-SZZ has two advan-
tages. Firstly, it improves precision by more fine-grained analy-
sis. Secondly, our method can be applied to all scenarios. Note
that we can also adopt our approach to bug-fixing commits with
deleted lines since the core idea of our approach is to compare
the states of the two versions of the program and identify the
statements contributing to the bug. Thus, based on the core idea,
we can apply S
EM-SZZ in all scenarios, regardless of whether
they contain deleted lines.
To evaluate our approach, we utilize the dataset proposed by
Lyu et al. [20]. Among all available datasets, we select this one
for two primary reasons. Firstly, the dataset is annotated by
the project’s developers, ensuring its accuracy and reliability.
Secondly, it contains the largest number of bug-fixing commits
with only added lines compared to other datasets. This dataset,
built on the Linux kernel, contains over ten thousand bug-fixing
commits without deleted lines. Thus, it is much more reli-
able than previous datasets, which are manually annotated and
small-scale. We assess our approach by attempting to address
the following questions:
RQ1: How effective is our approach in identifying bug-
inducing commits from bug-fixing commits with only
added lines?
In this research question (RQ), we first compare S
EM-SZZ
with our proposed baselines and A-SZZ across all bug-fixing
commits with only added lines. We also notice that some bug-
inducing commits cannot be found even by tracing back all lines
in the function and some bug-fixing commits do not contain
changed lines within functions. All methods mentioned above
cannot identify the first type of bug-inducing commits and
S
EM-SZZ is not designed to handle the second type of bug-
fix commits. Thus, we remove these redundant test cases and
then evaluate all methods. The results demonstrate that our pro-
posed baselines significantly outperform A-SZZ, and S
EM-SZZ
surpasses all baselines significantly, with an improvement from
17% to 19% in F1-score.
RQ2: How effective is SEM-SZZ in identifying bug-inducing
commits from bug-fixing commits with deleted lines?
In this research question (RQ), we compare our method
with baselines to identify bug-inducing commits from bug-
fixing commits with deleted lines. Our goal is to determine
whether S
EM-SZZ can effectively handle bug-fixing commits
with deleted lines. The result demonstrates that S EM-SZZ en-
hances precision by 7% and F1-score by 7%, respectively.
RQ3: How effective are the key components of SEM-SZZ?
In this research question (RQ), we conduct an ablation exper-
iment to verify the effectiveness of each key component. The
result shows that each key design, including data flow compar-
ison, path constraint comparison, the method to locate the bug-
inducing commit and the line similarity threshold, contributes
to the overall performance.
RQ4: How effective is S
EM-SZZ in terms of time cost?
An approach that consumes too much time is impractical for
deployment in real-world scenarios. In this RQ, we want to
investigate the time efficiency of our approach. The result shows
that our approach takes approximately 1.95 seconds to handle a
fixing commit from scratch, which can be deployed in practice.
In summary, our contributions can be summarized as follows:
• We provide a new insight on how to find bug-inducing
commits based on bug-fixing commits with only added
lines. Our study reveals that most bug-inducing commits
can be identified by tracing back nearby unmodified lines
of the added lines.
• We introduce a novel approach for pointing out statements
contributing to the bug from bug-fixing commits, which
compares the program’s state between two versions. This
approach can be applied to all scenarios, regardless of
whether the bug-fixing commit contains added lines.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:26:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 003 =====

TANG et al.: ENHANCING BUG-INDUCING COMMIT IDENTIFICATI ON: A FINE-GRAINED SEMANTIC ANALYSIS APPROACH 3039
Fig. 1. A motivation example.
• We introduce a new method for locating bug-inducing
commits by identifying the earliest commit that introduces
all these buggy statements and designating it as the bug-
inducing commit.
• Our experimental results demonstrate that S EM-SZZ out-
performs all other baselines in all scenarios.
II. M OTIVATION
In this section, we present a motivation example to illustrate
the need for an alternative approach.
Fig. 1 illustrates our motivation example, showing a bug-
fixing commit in the Linux kernel [22]. Due to space con-
straints, only the most significant part of the patch is displayed.
The commit message clearly indicates the reason behind the
evolution of the bug. Specifically, the previous version of the
program fails to clear the pending bit of the variable flags be-
fore passing it to the functionatomic_cmpxchg. The developer
addresses this issue by introducing a clear-bit operation through
an add-and-assign operation at line 15.
The previous approach, the A-SZZ algorithm [21], identifies
the block that encompasses the added lines. In this example, it
covers lines ranging from line 11 to 17. While it successfully
identifies the bug-inducing commit, it also introduces signifi-
cant noise. For instance, we can easily observe that the variable
definition statement at line 11 is unrelated to the bug. The
problem worsens when the block contains numerous lines. Most
of these lines are unrelated to the bug.
From the motivation example, we can make the following
observations:
Observation 1. Most of the bug-inducing commits can be
found by tracing back the unmodified lines near the added
lines. For instance, in this example, the bug-inducing commit
can be located by tracing back to line 13, which is only two
lines away from the added lines. Therefore, there is no need
to trace back the entire block. In fact, subsequent experiments
reveal that by tracing back only the two nearest unmodified
lines adjacent to the added lines, we can identify 85% of bug-
inducing commits with a much higher precision than the A-SZZ
algorithm.
Observation 2. To improve precision, we need to perform
a more fine-grained analysis. Although tracing back the
unmodified lines near the added lines is effective in locating
bug-inducing commits, it still su ffers from low precision. For
example, line 14 is unrelated to the variableflags and therefore
unrelated to the bug. A more fine-grained analysis can resolve
this issue. By conducting a data flow analysis on two versions
of the program, one for the buggy version and one for the fixed
version, we can observe that the sole difference lies in the data
flow of the flags variable. In the previous version, the data flow
of flags extends from line 12 to line 16. In the current version,
it flows from lines 12, and 15 to 16, with a new add-and-assign
operation at line 15. Thus, we can exclude the irrelevant line 14.
Observation 3. The bug arises from the combined impact
of multiple statements, each of which is indispensable for
its occurrence. From the commit message, it is obvious that the
bug requires two specific conditi ons. First, the variable flags
must be assigned without clearing the pending bit (lines 12-
13). Secondly, the variable flag must be passed to the function
atomic_cmpxchg (lines 16-17). It’s the interaction between
these statements that triggers the bug. Thus, when pinpointing
bug-inducing commits, it’s essential to ensure that both state-
ments are present within the identified commit, rather than just
one of them.
III. A
PPROACH
Building on the motivation example, our proposed method
aims to effectively identify all statements contributing to the
appearance of the bug. The architecture of S
EM-SZZ is shown
in Fig. 2.
Observation 1 leads our approach to focusing on program
segments near the added lines. Thus, we begin by performing
program slicing [23], [24] to extract relevant program parts
close to the additions. Based on Observation 2, after slicing the
program, we delve into a more detailed analysis. This involves
comparing the states of both versions of the program, one with
the added lines and one without. Through thorough comparison
and analysis, we identify specific statements associated with
the added lines, pinpointing them as the triggers for the bug.
Drawing on Observation 3, we proceed to locate bug-inducing
commits by finding the earliest commit that contains all buggy
statements.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:26:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 004 =====

3040 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SOFTW ARE ENGINEERING, VOL. 50, NO. 11, NOVEMBER 2024
Fig. 2. Overview of S EM-SZZ.
Fig. 3. An example of program slice.
A. Program Slicing
In this section, we present the program slicing process. The
goal of this process is to pick out specific parts of the program
that are relevant to the bug.
Firstly, we extract the function from the fixed version con-
taining the added lines. Then, we adapt the approach similar
to the previous research [25] for an intraprocedural program
slicing. During the program slicing process, we initially identify
the point of interest, which in this case is the basic block
containing added lines. Subsequently, we conduct both forward
and backward program slicing centered around this point. In this
way, we can avoid the noise introduced by the irrelevant lines.
In detail, we initially construct the control flow graph [26]
for the function, splitting the function into a set of basic blocks.
Then we pick out the basic block containing the added line as
the point of interest. Finally, we use the depth-first-search algo-
rithm to search itsN nearest predecessors and successors. Here,
the parameter N is the maximum search step, indicating the
search scope of our program. When the search step reaches N,
we save all the basic blocks encountered during the searching
process and exclude all other parts of the program.
Here, our slice criterion is based on basic blocks with added
code statements instead of variables. We do this for two reasons.
Firstly, there may be many changed statements in a function,
resulting in many changed variables. Handling them one by one
is time-consuming. By dealing with changed basic blocks, we
can address many code statements and variables once at a time.
Secondly, slicing based on variables may introduce lines far
from the added lines, which can introduce noise. Instead, by
slicing only the basic blocks near the changed basic blocks, we
can avoid this issue.
Fig. 3 illustrates an example of program slicing, based on the
function depicted in the motivation example. As depicted in the
figure, the original function is divided into six basic blocks, with
line ranges also indicated. The added line number is 15. Thus,
the basic block d contains the added line and we designate it
as the interesting point. Here we set N to 3. We begin to search
its three nearest predecessors (in this case, blocks c, a and
begin). Subsequently, we explore its three nearest successors.
Note that each block is visited only once throughout the process.
Thus, we identify the end block as the only successor. As a
result, our slicing result contains basic blocks begin, a, c, d,
and end.
B. State Collection
Having isolated the part of the program relevant to the bug,
our next step is to collect the states of the program within
this portion. We borrow the concept program’s state from sym-
bolic execution [27], [28]. In symbolic execution, the execution
engine maintains the program’s states (σ,π) for each execu-
tion path, where σ represents a table that maps each variable
to its corresponding symbolic value α
i, and pi denotes the
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:26:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 005 =====

TANG et al.: ENHANCING BUG-INDUCING COMMIT IDENTIFICATI ON: A FINE-GRAINED SEMANTIC ANALYSIS APPROACH 3041
Fig. 4. Candidate selection.
Algorithm 1: obtaining the program’s state after exe-
cuting the path.
Input : path, the input path
Output: state, the program’s state for the execution
path.
1 for statement in path do
2 if statement.type in {while, if, switch, for} then
3 state.constraints.add(statement)
4 if statement.type in {expression} then
5 variables ←−extractVars(statement)
6 for variable in variables do
7 state.variable.dataflow.append(statement)
8 return state
path constraints, signifying all branch conditions taken to reach
each statement in the path. Given that our goal is to discern
the differences between the states of the two versions of the
program—the bug-fixed version and the buggy version, there
is no imperative need for the symbolic value of each variable.
Instead, we collect each variable’s data flow for simplicity.
As shown above, in order to collect the program’s state,
we first construct its execution paths. We start from the ba-
sic blocks without predecessors and then traverse recursively
through all their successors. When we reach basic blocks with
no successors, we mark all statements encountered in sequential
order as an execution path. For example, in the sliced program
illustrated in Fig.3, we start from thebeginblock and traverse
its successors, including blocks a, c, d, until we arrive at the
endblock, which has no further successors. During the process,
we add each statement encountered to the execution path.
Following path extraction, we proceed to generate the pro-
gram’s state for the execution path. Algorithm 1 outlines the
process. We iterate through the statements in the execution path.
If the statement type belongs to path constraints (line 2), we
include the statement in the path constraints. Otherwise, we
extract the variables from the statement and incorporate them
into the data flow of these variables (lines 4-7).
Fig. 5. A program state example.
Fig. 5 illustrates the program’s state for the previously col-
lected execution path in the motivation example. Upon encoun-
tering the statement at line 3, we extract the variablesworkand
tmp from the statement. Consequently, we add line number 3
to their data flow, as depicted in the figure. Additionally, upon
reaching line 6, we easily identify it as an if statement related
to path constraint. Since our path executes from block c to d,
and it does not satisfy the condition, we negate the condition
and store it in the path constraint, as shown in Fig. 5.
C. State Comparison
After collecting the states, our subsequent step involves com-
paring the states of the execution paths from the current version
with those from the previous version. This comparison enables
us to identify discrepancies in their states, ultimately helping us
determine the unmodified statements contributing to the bug.
For each execution path in the current version, our objective
is to discover how the added lines affect the path, making its
state different from the previous version. To enable the com-
parison, the first step involves identifying the corresponding
execution path in the previous version and obtaining its state.
Our goal is to find an execution path in the previous version
that most closely resembles the one in the current version. Thus,
we can capture the differences in their states more precisely.
To get such a corresponding path, we begin by mapping the
first and last basic blocks in the current execution path to their
counterparts in the previous version of the program. Subse-
quently, we traverse from the first block in the previous version,
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:26:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 006 =====

3042 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SOFTW ARE ENGINEERING, VOL. 50, NO. 11, NOVEMBER 2024
Fig. 6. Constraint comparison example.
endeavoring to find a path to the last block. It is important
to note that we may encounter mu ltiple candidates during this
step. For each candidate in the pr evious version, we initially
prioritize the one that shares th e highest number of constraints
with the current execution path.If there are multiple candidates,
preference is given to the one with the most common lines.
To illustrate this, we use the extracted execution path p from
the motivation example. To derive its corresponding path in the
previous version, we initially map its first and last basic blocks
to their counterparts in the previous version. These correspond
to the begin’ block and the end’ block, respectively, as
illustrated in orange in Fig. 4.
Next, we attempt to find out paths from the first mapped
block to the last mapped block in the previous version. In
this case, we aim to find paths from the begin’ block to
the end’ block in the previous version of the program. We
use the depth-first-search algorithm to find out candidates. As
depicted in the figure, we encounter two candidates: p
′
1 and p′
2.
After comparing their constraints, we observe that candidatep′
1
shares more constraints with p, leading us to designate it as the
corresponding path.
After path matching, each pathpwith the statesin the current
version has been paired with a corresponding path p′ with the
state s′from the previous version. Now, we initially compare the
two states and proceed to find out which unmodified statements
in the previous version contribute to the occurrence of the bug.
The detailed algorithm is outlined in Algorithm 2. Initially,
we compare the constraints in two program states. If the con-
straints in the previous path are not identical to those in the
current path, we first identify the index i where the con-
straint preCons[i] in the previous version is different from
the constraint curCons[i] in the current version(lines 1-3).
In case of a conflict condition, we assume that the previous
version of the program may neglect the condition curCons[i]
from the statement S
i to the statement Si+1, where Si is the
last statement before curCons[i] and Si+1 is the first state-
ment after curCons[i]. Consequently, we utilize the function
extractStmts to extract Si and Si+1, subsequently mapping
them to the previous version and adding them to the buggy
statements (lines 4-5).
We provide a constraint comparison example in Fig.6.I nt h e
previous version, the path executes from S
i to Si+1 without a
condition check while in the current version, it needs to sat-
isfy Cnew. The newly added constraint is highlighted in green
while the original constraints are highlighted in red. Here the
constraints in the previous version are C
1, C2, and C3.T h e
Algorithm 2: obtain the buggy statements.
Input : s, state of the current path.
s′, state of the previous path.
Output: bStmts, the obtained buggy statements.
i←−0
preCons ←−s′.constraints
curCons ←−s.constraints
1 for i<curCons.size () and i<preCons.size () do
2 if curCons[i]̸=preCons[i] then
3 break
i←−i+1
4 if i̸=curCons.size() then
5 bStmts.add(extractStmts(curCons [i],s))
6 for var in s′.vars do
i←−0
7 preData ←−s′.var.data
8 curData ←−s.var.data
9 for i<curData.size () and i<preData.size ()
do
10 if curData[i]̸=preData[i] then
11 break
i←−i+1
12 if i̸=curData.size() then
13 bStmts.add(preData [i-1],preData [i])
current version of the program has constraints C1, C2, Cnew
and C3. We compare all constraints in sequential order and find
that C3 is conflicted with Cnew at index 2. Thus, we extract the
last statement Si before Cnew and the first statement Si+1 after
Cnew. We map these two statements to the previous version and
add them to buggy statements.
For each variable in the previous path, we compare its data
flow with that in the current path (lines 10-11). Again, we first
locate the conflict index. Then, we add the conflicting index
and its preceding index’s corresponding statements to the buggy
statements (lines 12-13). Note that a variable’s data flow is the
sequence of code statements that define, assign, modify, or use
the variable in the path. Additionally, when we compare the data
flow of a variable, we do not consider the control flow.
In the case of the motivation example, we first examine
the constraints and identify no differences. Subsequently, we
analyze the data flow of each variable. Upon inspection, we
observe that the data flow of the variable flagsin the previous
version encompasses two statements 11-12, 16-17, while in the
current version, it comprises three statements 11-12, 15, 16-17.
Consequently, a conflict ar ises at index 1, as we illustrate in
green in Fig. 5. As a result, we include the statements 11-12,
16-17 as the statements contributing to the bug.
D. Locating Bug-Inducing Commits
After identifying all buggy statements, the subsequent step
involves tracing back the commit history to pinpoint the bug-
inducing commit. We adopt an approach similar to the “per-
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:26:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 007 =====

TANG et al.: ENHANCING BUG-INDUCING COMMIT IDENTIFICATI ON: A FINE-GRAINED SEMANTIC ANALYSIS APPROACH 3043
Fig. 7. Locating bug-inducing commits.
fect test” model proposed by Rodríguez-Pérez et al. [29].T h e
model consists of two parts. The first part involves determining
whether a commit is buggy. They assume there exists a “per-
fect test” to accomplish this. If a commit can pass the test,
it is considered correct; otherwise, it is deemed buggy. The
second part involves locating the bug-inducing commit. They
trace back from the bug-fixing commit until encountering the
earliest commit that fails the “perfect test,” marking it as the
bug-inducing commit. However, in practice, there is always no
applicable “perfect test” available. Therefore, they replace it
with manually designed tests based on bug reports.
Based on the model mentioned above, our method to locate
the bug-inducing commits also consists of two parts. To deter-
mine whether a commit is buggy, we replace the “perfect test”
with the buggy statements collected above. As we mentioned
above, each buggy statement is indispensable to the occurrence
of the bug. Thus, we consider the commit as buggy only when it
contains all buggy statements or it contains statements with the
same semantic meaning as all buggy statements. To determine
whether two statements have the same semantic meaning, we
leverage the methodology proposed by V-SZZ [17].I ft w o
statements have a line similarity beyond a threshold, we believe
that they have the same semantic meaning. Here, we also use the
same method to compute line similarity and set the similarity
t h r e s h o l dt o0 . 7 5a sV - S Z Z .
Suppose that we have two strings S
1 and S2. We first cal-
culate the sum of the length of S1 and S2 as in formula 1.
Then we calculate the line similarity shown in formula2, where
the levenshteinDistance function is used to calculate the
Levenshtein edit distance[30] of the two strings. Line similarity
ranges from 0 to 1. Higher values indicate a greater likelihood
that two code statements share the same semantic meaning.
L=len(S
1)+ len(S2) (1)
S =(L−levenshteinDistance(S1,S2))/L (2)
To locate the bug-inducing commits, we trace back all buggy
statements, generating a set of candidate commits. Subse-
quently, we scrutinize these candidates to identify the earliest
buggy commit and designate it as the bug-inducing commit,
which is the same as the model above.
Fig. 7 illustrates the process o f locating bug-inducing
commits. After obtaining statements contributing to the bug,
we first use the git blame tool on the statements and
obtain two candidates: commit 153bedbac2e and commit
feb4a51323b. Then we begin to check which commit
first introduces all buggy statements. We first check the
earliest commit 153bedbac2e and find that no statement
has a line similarity over 0.75 with the statement flags
= atomic_fetch_andnot(IRQ_WORK_PENDING, &
work-> flags). The most closely related statement is line
3, but its similarity is still under 0.75. Thus, 153bedbac2e
is not the bug-inducing commit. Then, we check commit
feb4a51323b and find that it contains all statements in
the buggy statements. Thus, we designate it as the final
bug-inducing commit, which is the same as the developers’
message in Fig. 1.
E. Extending S
EM-SZZ to Bug-Fixing Commits With
Deleted Lines
While our method is primarily designed for bug-fixing com-
mits with only added lines, the approach of comparing program
states and identifying buggy statements can also be applied to
commits with deleted lines. However, some adjustments are
necessary for this scenario, particularly with respect to deleted
lines.
First, during program slicing, we mark the basic block con-
taining deleted lines as the point of interest and search its nearest
N predecessors and successors. Second, when comparing pro-
gram states, we focus more on deleted lines. Specifically, if we
find differences in path constraints between the previous and
current versions, we identify the deleted lines related to those
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:26:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 008 =====

3044 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SOFTW ARE ENGINEERING, VOL. 50, NO. 11, NOVEMBER 2024
Fig. 8. An example of handling bug- fixing commits w ith deleted lines.
constraints and mark them as buggy statements. Similarly, when
comparing the data flow of each variable, if there’s a difference
between versions, we identify and mark the related deleted lines
as buggy statements.
Fig. 8 illustrates why comparing paths is necessary. If we
blamed all deleted lines, lines 3 and 17 would be included.
However, line 3 is simply replaced by line 4 and does not affect
the program’s state. By comparing paths, we can see that the
data flow of variables buffer and count is not affected,
allowing us to exclude line 3 and reduce noise.
IV . E
XPERIMENT SETUP
A. Experiment Setting
The experiment was conducted on a server equipped with
an Intel(R) Xeon(R) Gold 6226R CPU, running the Ubuntu
operating system. We utilized gitpython to extract source
files from both the previous and current versions of the program.
The control flow graph was constructed based on the AST
generated by the tr ee-sitter parser [31]. Following the V-SZZ
algorithm, we set the line similarity threshold as 0.75. Notably,
we set the maximum search step parameter N to three. Further
details on the impact of various maximum search steps will be
discussed in the subsequent section. Moreover, we implement
all baselines based on tools provided by Lenarduzzi et al. [32].
B. Data Preparation
To evaluate our method, we r equire a high-qua lity dataset.
While several researchers [33], [34] have introduced datasets
containing bug-inducing and bug-fixing commits, a common
challenge is the lack of annotations by project developers, po-
tentially leading to inaccuracies. Recently, some datasets [35],
Fig. 9. Datasets relationship.
Fig. 10. A bug-fixing commit involving no changes within functions.
[36] with developers’ annotations have been proposed, but all
of them have very limited examples of bug-fixing commits
with no deleted lines. For example, after filtering, the dataset
proposed by Rosa et al. [35] contains only about 20 bug-fixing
commits only with added lines. Considering these factors, we
opted to utilize the datas et proposed by Lyu et al. [20], which
is constructed based on the Linux kernel and contains 79,649
bug-fixing commits. There are several reasons for this choice.
Firstly, it is annotated by developers, ensuring its accuracy.
The developers leave the link to the bug-inducing commit in
the commit message of the bug-fixing commit. Secondly, it
contains a significant number of bug-fixing commits without
any deletion lines. To eval uate our method, we partition the
original dataset into multiple datasets, as illustrated in Fig. 9.
We initially pick out bug-fixing commits containing c files
with only added lines from the original dataset, yielding
11,426 commits, which we call DATASET
-A. Here, the suffix
“A” means added lines. To better demonstrate the effective-
ness of S EM-SZZ, we filter out two types of commits from
DATASET-A. The first type of commits does not involve
changes within functions. These commits often only involve
changes to header file includes, str uct definitions, or global
variable declarations. We have provided an example in Fig.10.
The commit fixes the bug only by adding a new header file.
The second type involves changes within functions, but even
by tracing all lines in th e changed functions, we still cannot
identify the bug-inducing commits. Our approach is not de-
signed for the first type, and no approaches, including base-
lines, can handle the second type. Thus, we filter out these two
types of commits from DATASET
-A and get DATASET -FA,
which contains 6,233 bug-fixing commits. Here, the suffix “FA”
stands for the filtered bug-fixing commits with only added lines.
Finally, to evaluate our method’s effectiveness in identifying
bug-inducing commits from bug-fixing commits with deleted
lines, we extract bug-fixing commits containing c files with
deleted lines and changes in functi ons, resulting in 48,736 test
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:26:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 009 =====

TANG et al.: ENHANCING BUG-INDUCING COMMIT IDENTIFICATI ON: A FINE-GRAINED SEMANTIC ANALYSIS APPROACH 3045
TABLE I
THE ST A T I S T I C SO FT H EBUGS AND CORRESPONDING BUG-FIXING
COMMITS IN THREE DATASETS
DATASET #Bug-Fixing #Bug-Inducing #SMALL #LARGE
DATASET-A
DATASET-FA
DATASET-D
6,233
11,426
48,736
6,419
11,829
50,978
7,959
4,394
16,615
3,467
1,839
25,975
cases, forming the DATASET -D. Here, the suffix “D” means
the deleted lines. Note that as long as a bug-fixing commit
contains deleted lines, it can be included in DATASET-D. Thus,
DATASET-D includes bug-fixing commits with only deleted
lines and bug-fixing commits with both added and deleted lines.
Table I presents the statistics of our three datasets. We cat-
egorize the bug-fixing commits following previous research
[17], [18]. Notice that if a bug-fixing commit contains fewer
than five changed lines, we categorize it as a small bug-fixing
commit; otherwise, we categorize it as large. From the table, we
can see that all three datasets contain multiple large bug-fixing
commits. This is helpful when we want to demonstrate that
our approach can scale to large bug-fixing commits. Moreover,
we can also see that one bug-fixing commit may correspond to
multiple bug-inducing commits.
C. Baselines
Few previous research studies have proposed methods to
identify bug-inducing commits that involve only added lines.
To enhance the evaluation of our approach, we introduce a
new set of baselines of our own, complementing the existing
approaches. All the following baselines have the prefix “A”.
Here, the “A” stands for “added lines,” indicating that these
baselines are designed to handle bug-fixing commits with only
added lines.
• A-SZZ. A-SZZ, proposed by Sahal et al. [21], is an ap-
proach that initially identifies the added lines, then locates
the block encapsulating the new code change, and finally
utilizes the git blame tool to trace back the historical
changes of the code block.
• AB-SZZ. Building on the concept of B-SZZ [6],w ei n t r o -
duce an additional baseline named AB-SZZ. Similar to the
B-SZZ algorithm, which utilizes the git blame tool on each
deletion line, our variant also aims to find lines for each
added line to trace back. In contrast to the relatively coarse
scope of A-SZZ, which covers the whole code block, our
approach only selects the two nearest unmodified lines
above and below each added line. In this way, we can
guarantee that each added line has unmodified lines to
trace back.
Our study also adopts the concept of B-SZZ variants, such as
AG-SZZ, MA-SZZ, R-SZZ and L-SZZ to introduce baselines,
which is the same as three previous studies [17], [20], [37] .
Note that we exclude the RA-SZZ algorithm [9], because there
are no existing tools to identify refactors in the C programming
language.
• AAG-SZZ. The original AG-SZZ algorithm, proposed by
Kim et al. [7], enhances the B-SZZ algorithm by filtering
out non-semantic lines, such as blank lines, comment lines,
and format modifications. Additionally, they leverage the
annotation graph to gather more information than the an-
notatecommand. Given that the git blame tool already
leverages the annotation graph, the AAG-SZZ algorithm
only needs to filter out non-semantic lines identified in the
AB-SZZ algorithm.
• AMA-SZZ. The original MA-SZZ algorithm is proposed
by Da Costa et al. [8]. They notice that the existence
of meta-changes introduces noise in the identified bug-
inducing commits. Meta-changes refer to changes that do
not alter the semantics of code, such as branch changes,
merge changes, and property file changes. To implement
AMA-SZZ, we need to filter out meta-changes based on
the AAG-SZZ algorithm.
• AR-SZZ and AL-SZZ. The original R-SZZ and
L-SZZ algorithms were proposed by Davies et al. [33].
The R-SZZ algorithm selects the most recent commit from
the AG-SZZ algorithm results, while the L-SZZ selects the
commit that changed the most lines. In the AR-SZZ and
AL-SZZ algorithms, we adopt the same selection strategy
as the R-SZZ and L-SZZ algorithms to select the final com-
mit from the results produced by the AAG-SZZ algorithm.
To evaluate our approach in scenarios where the bug-fixing
commit contains deleted lines, we adopt the approaches B-SZZ,
AG-SZZ, MA-SZZ, L-SZZ and R-SZZ as in previous studies
[17], [20]
, [37].
D. Metrics
Following previous research practices [17], [18], [20],w e
adopt three widely used metrics (i.e., Precision, Recall, and
F1-score) to assess the performance of our approach and other
baselines.
Precision Precision gauges the accuracy of positive predic-
tions made by the SZZ algorithm. In this context, we define I
T
as the SZZ algorithm’s correctly identified true bug-inducing
commits and IF as the falsely identified bug-inducing commits.
Therefore, precision can be calculated as follows:
P = IT
IT +IF
(3)
Recall is a measure of the SZZ algorithm’s ability of cap-
turing true bug-inducing commits among all bug-inducing
commits. Here IT is defined as the SZZ algorithm’s correctly
identified true bug-inducing commits and M is the number of
all bug-inducing commits. Thus, recall can be calculated as
follows:
R= IT
M (4)
F1-score is the harmonic mean of precision and recall. It
provides a balance between these two metrics, taking both false
positives and false negatives into account. After obtainingP as
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:26:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 010 =====

3046 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SOFTW ARE ENGINEERING, VOL. 50, NO. 11, NOVEMBER 2024
TABLE II
THE PERFORMANCE COMPARISONS BETWEEN
ALL METHODS FOR FINDING ALL
BUG-INDUCING COMMITS
Approach Precision Recall F1-score
A-SZZ
AB-SZZ
AAG-SZZ
AMA-SZZ
AR-SZZ
AL-SZZ
0.07
0.26
0.28
0.28
0.39
0.37
0.64
0.56
0.52
0.52
0.38
0.36
0.13
0.36
0.36
0.36
0.37
0.36
SEM-SZZ * 0.45 0.43 0.44
the precision and Ras the recall, the F1-score can be calculated
as follows:
F1= 2PR
P +R (5)
V. EXPERIMENT
This section presents the experiment results of our research
questions.
A. Effectiveness of Our Met hod in Identifying Bug-Inducing
Commits From Bug-Fixing Commits With Only Added Lines
In this research question, we focus on two experimental
settings: all bug-inducing commits and filtered bug-inducing
commits. In the first setting, we concentrate on locating bug-
inducing commits in DATASET-A. In the second setting, we
focus on locating bug-inducing commits in DATASET-FA.
In DATASET-A, there are 2,411 commits that involve no
changes within functions, accounting for 21% of the total test
cases. Thus, when handling test cases in DATASET-A, we first
check whether the current commit contains added lines in func-
tions. If it does, we use S
EM-SZZ to produce the result. If it does
not, we use the AR-SZZ algorithm. This approach gives us the
experimental results shown in the row S
EM-SZZ * in Table II.
Table II presents the results of our approach and baselines
for identifying all bug-inducing commits. Notably, the precision
of some baselines, especially the A-SZZ algorithm, is relatively
low, with a precision of less than 0.1. The best baseline AR-SZZ
has a precision equal to 0.39, which is still lower than S
EM-SZZ
*. Thus, our approach improves precision by 22% compared to
the best baseline AR-SZZ.
As shown in Table II, A-SZZ performs the worst in F1-score
due to a high number of false positives. Our proposed baselines
outperform A-SZZ significantly. The best baselines AAG-SZZ
and AMA-SZZ outperform A-SZZ by 200% in F1-score. This
indicates the effectiveness of tracing back the neighboring un-
modified lines of added lines. Furthermore, we observe that the
AB-SZZ algorithm and its variants perform almost the same,
resembling findings from prior research [20] where B-SZZ,
AG-SZZ, MA-SZZ, L-SZZ and R-SZZ demonstrated similar
performance. Notably, the idea of filtering out meta-changes
appears to have no effect in this context. In TableII,S
EM-SZZ *
TABLE III
THE PERFORMANCE COMPARISONS BETWEEN
ALL METHODS FOR FINDING FILTERED
BUG-INDUCING COMMITS
Approach Precision Recall F1-score
A-SZZ
AB-SZZ
AAG-SZZ
AMA-SZZ
AR-SZZ
AL-SZZ
0.11
0.42
0.44
0.44
0.58
0.57
0.96
0.84
0.79
0.79
0.56
0.55
0.20
0.56
0.57
0.57
0.57
0.56
SEM-SZZ 0.68 0.66 0.67
also demonstrates the best balance between precision and recall,
improving F1-score by 19% compared to the best baseline
AR-SZZ.
We then re-run all methods on DATASET-FA, and the results
are documented in TableIII. TableIII demonstrates a significant
improvement in the performance of all methods. However, some
baselines continue to struggle with low precision. Notably, the
precision of the A-SZZ algorithm is still quite low, with only a
slight improvement from 0.07 to 0.11. After filtering out certain
commits, the precisions of the AB-SZZ, AAG-SZZ and MA-
SZZ algorithms remain below 0.50, despite an improvement of
around 0.16. From the table, it’s evident that S
EM-SZZ contin-
ues to outperform all baselines in precision, outperforming the
best baseline AR-SZZ by 17%.
From Table III, we can also see that the unmodified lines,
which can be traced back to find bug-inducing commits, mostly
lie near the added lines. This is evident from the recall of the
baselines, where they find most of the bug-inducing commits
successfully. This corresponds to the introduction and the mo-
tivation example, where we claim that most of the bug-inducing
commits can be found by tracing back the unmodified lines near
the added lines.
Compared to all baselines, S
EM-SZZ also achieves the best
balance between precision and recall. This is evident in the
F1-score, where S EM-SZZ achieves an F1-score of 0.67. It
outperforms the best baselines by 18%, respectively. Therefore,
we believe that S
EM-SZZ is more effective in identifying bug-
inducing commits which can be found by tracing back all lines
within the function.
RQ-1: SEM-SZZ is more precise in identifying bug-
inducing commits compared to all baselines, increasing
precision by 22%. Furthermore, SEM-SZZ achieves a no-
table improvement of 19% in F1-score compared to the best
baseline.
B. Effectiveness of Our Met hod in Identifying Bug-Inducing
Commits From Bug-Fixing Commits With Deleted Lines
Table IV presents the results of S
EM-SZZ and baselines on
identifying bug-inducing commits from bug-fixing commits in
DATASET-D. The results indicate that all baselines perform
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:26:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 011 =====

TANG et al.: ENHANCING BUG-INDUCING COMMIT IDENTIFICATI ON: A FINE-GRAINED SEMANTIC ANALYSIS APPROACH 3047
TABLE IV
THE PERFORMANCE COMPARISONS FOR FINDING
BUG-INDUCING COMMITS FROM BUG-FIXING
COMMITS WITH DELETED LINES
Approach Precision Recall F1-score
B-SZZ
AG-SZZ
MA-SZZ
R-SZZ
L-SZZ
0.42
0.48
0.48
0.58
0.56
0.71
0.65
0.65
0.55
0.52
0.53
0.55
0.55
0.56
0.54
SEM-SZZ 0.62 0.59 0.60
TABLE V
THE PERFORMANCE COMPARISONS IN
ABLATION STUDY
Similarity Precisio n Recall F1-score
SEM-SZZ-c
SEM-SZZ-d
SEM-SZZ-l
0.69
0.67
0.65
0.31
0.36
0.64
0.47
0.42
0.64
SEM-SZZ 0.68 0.66 0.67
similarly. The AG-SZZ, MA-SZZ, R-SZZ and L-SZZ algo-
rithms improve the precision compared to B-SZZ, but their F1-
scores are almost the same. Notably, the recall of B-SZZ is
relatively high. This implies that if there are deleted lines, it is
very likely that we can find the bug-inducing commits by tracing
back the deleted lines. This explains why we need to modify the
approach when dealing with bug-fixing commits with deleted
lines and why we need to pay more attention to deleted lines
when they exist.
Additionally, from the table, we can observe that S
EM-SZZ
also outperforms all baselines. It improves the precision by
7%, compared to the best baseline R-SZZ. Our method also
demonstrates a notable improvement in F1-score, surpassing the
best baseline by 7%.
RQ-3: SEM-SZZ outperforms all baselines in identifying
bug-inducing commits from bug-fixing commits with deleted
lines. It enhances precision by 7% and F1-score by 7%
compared to the best baseline.
C. Effectiveness of Key Designs in S
EM-SZZ
In this research question, we aim to evaluate the effectiveness
of the key components in our approach. SEM-SZZ incorporates
two primary designs for identifying buggy statements and one
for pinpointing bug-inducing commits.
The first design involves comparing path constraints between
the previous and current versions of the program. Here, the
previous version refers to the first commit preceding the bug-
fixing commit, while the current version refers to the bug-fixing
commit itself. The second design involves comparing the data
flow of each variable in both versions. In the third design, we
utilize line similarity comparisonto identify the earliest commit
Fig. 11. The impact of line similarity threshold.
that introduces the statements contributing to the bug, marking
it as the bug-inducing commit.
To do the ablation study, we first use DATASET -FA and
compare S EM-SZZ with three of its variants: S EM-SZZ-c,
SEM-SZZ-d, and SEM-SZZ-l, each missing one key component.
Then we change the line similarity threshold and evaluate its
impact on the SEM-SZZ’s performance. In SEM-SZZ-c, we only
compare the constraints and drop the comparison of data flow.
Similarly, S
EM-SZZ-d only focuses on comparing the data flow
and drops the comparison of constraints. Both variants would
cause fewer buggy statements to be identified. In S EM-SZZ-
l, we do not use the line similarity comparison to identify
bug-inducing commits, instead following V-SZZ’s approach by
selecting the earliest one.
From TableV, it’s evident that SEM-SZZ achieves the highest
F1-score compared to all of its variants. While S EM-SZZ-c
demonstrates the best precision among all methods, dropping
data flow comparison results in a significant decrease in re-
call. Similarly, dropping constraint comparison has a substantial
negative impact on recall performance. Both constraint and data
flow comparisons contribute almost equally to recall. Moreover,
our method of locating bug-inducing commits enhances the
method’s ability to point out bug-inducing commits, improving
all metrics. It improves precision by 5%, recall by 3%, and F1-
score by 5% compared to S
EM-SZZ-l. Fig. 11 shows that the
choice of line similarity threshold also influences the perfor-
mance. When the line similarity threshold rises from 0.65 to
0.75, the F1-score also increases. However, when the threshold
increases from 0.75 to 0.85, the F1-score drops. This shows that
0.75 is an appropriate value for the line similarity threshold.
RQ-2: Table V illustrates that each of our key designs
contributes to the performance in identifying bug-inducing
commits. Both constraint comparison and data flow com-
parison contribute equally to recall. Additionally, our
method of locating bug-inducing commits enhances the
performance across all metrics and 0.75 is the appropriate
value for the line similarity threshold.
D. Time Efficiency
In this section, our objective is to assess the time consumption
of our approach during program analysis. We compare the
performance of our S
EM-SZZ with the baseline A-SZZ, both
of which involve analyzing the program’s structure.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:26:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 012 =====

3048 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SOFTW ARE ENGINEERING, VOL. 50, NO. 11, NOVEMBER 2024
Fig. 12. A failing example.
The outcome reveals that it takes approximately three hours
and fifty minutes to process all examples in DATASET-A,
equating to an average of 1.95 seconds per test case. Compared
to A-SZZ, our approach takes approximately three times longer.
This is attributed to the fact that our method involves analyzing
both the previous and current versions of the program, whereas
A-SZZ only needs to focus on the current version. Additionally,
our approach requires collecting states and comparing them
between two program versions. Despite the increased time over-
head, we believe our approach remains practical and applicable
in real-world scenarios.
RQ-3: SEM-SZZ takes approximately 1.95 seconds to han-
dle a fixing commit from scratch. This duration includes
tasks such as extracting the source files, collecting and
comparing states, and locating bug-inducing commits.
VI. D
ISCUSSION
A. Analysis for the Failure Case
In this section, we aim to analyze the reasons behind the
failures observed in some cases. We randomly select 100 cases
to analyze the reasons for the failures. After analysis, the failed
reasons can be summarized as follows:
Line similarity fails to determine whether a commit is
buggy. Out of the 100 cases analyzed, 28 cases fail because
S
EM-SZZ fails to determine whether a commit is buggy.
The main reason for this is the line similarity matching pro-
tocol used in our method. In our approach, for each statement
contributing to the bug, if there all exists a line with string
similarity beyond a threshold, we assume that the commit is
influenced by the buggy. However, this method sometimes fails
to accurately identify the bug-inducing commits. For instance,
consider the commit 15273ffd7ef [38], which adds a new
line ret = 0;. Our method generates two buggy statements:
if (!ret) and return ret;. However, when locating
the bug-inducing commit, the method encounters many state-
ments like if (ret), which exhibit high line similarity but
have completely different semantic meanings. This can lead to
incorrect judgments and result in finding false bug-inducing
commits. This issue is particularly prevalent when the buggy
statements contain many short statements.
Fig. 13. An example to show the effectiveness of program slicing.
Failing to point out buggy statements correctly. Another
main reason for the failure is that our method fails to point out
buggy statements correctly. This issue is responsible for most of
the remaining failing cases. F or instance, while the added line
may influence the variable’s data flow, analyzing the affected
variable’s data flow may not yield correct results.
Consider the commit 072b30642f9[39], illustrated in Fig.12.
This commit introduces a new code line at line 2, highlighted in
green, impacting the data flow of the variabledrv. Our method,
accordingly, compares its data flow with the previous version
and identifies lines 1 and 3 as buggy statements. However,
tracing back these unmodified lines does not lead us to the bug-
inducing commit, resulting in the failure of our method in this
scenario.
After carefully analyzing the bug-fixing commit and the bug-
inducing commit, we find that the bug occurs because the
bug-inducing commit attempts to introduce a new function
in the program but forgets to use it. Specifically, it creates
the iwl_load_fw_dbg_tlv function. However, the bug-
inducing commit only defines the function and forgets to use
it. Consequently, the bug-fixing commit fixes the bug by using
the iwl_load_fw_dbg_tlv function in line 2. Therefore,
we can conclude that the bug has nothing to do with the data
flow of the drvvariable. As a result, S
EM-SZZ fails to identify
the bug-inducing commit in this case.
B. Effectiveness of Program Slicing in Finding
Bug-Inducing Commits
Although tracing back the unmodified lines near the added
lines is an effective approach for finding bug-inducing com-
mits if we do not consider precisi on, there are still some bug-
inducing commits that cannot be found in this way. In this
section, we discuss whether program slicing, which explores N
basic blocks near the added lines, helps find more bug-inducing
commits that the baselines cannot detect.
In the experiment, we try to find bug-inducing commits that
S
EM-SZZ can detect but baselines can not. The experimental
result shows that S EM-SZZ does find bug-inducing commits
that the baselines cannot detect, accounting for 1.4% of the
total test cases. One typical example is the commit bfab7c8ff89
[40], shown in Fig. 13. In this case, the bug occurs because
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:26:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 013 =====

TANG et al.: ENHANCING BUG-INDUCING COMMIT IDENTIFICATI ON: A FINE-GRAINED SEMANTIC ANALYSIS APPROACH 3049
Fig. 14. The impact of parameter N.
the previous version of the program does not call the fwn-
ode_handle_putfunction before returning. If we trace back
the two nearest lines between the added line, we cannot find the
bug-inducing commit. However, by comparing the differences
in the data flow of the variable fwnode, we can locate lines 1
and 3. Tracing back from these lines allows us to successfully
identify the bug-inducing commit.
C. Impact of the Maximum Search Step
In this section, we aim to investigate the impact of the maxi-
mum search step parameter N. As mentioned earlier, given that
most bug-inducing commits can be identified by tracing back
nearby lines, we set the maximum search step parameter N
to three. This parameter dictates that for each added line, we
search three basic blocks above and below it.
In this section, we vary the parameter N from 1 to 5 to
assess the performance of S
EM-SZZ under different settings.
Our evaluation focuses on key aspects such as F1-score and time
efficiency. Here, to show the influence of the maximum search
step on time efficiency more clearly, we exclude the time of
extracting source files.
Fig. 14 presents the results of the experiment. It is evident
that varying the number of the maximum search step does
not significantly impact time efficiency. While there is a slight
increase in time cost as the number of maximum search steps
grows, the increase is not substantial. Similarly, varying the
number of the maximum search steps does not significantly
impact the F1-score. It increases from a maximum search step
of 1 to 3, then decreases from 4 to 5. The reason for growth
is pretty easy to understand. As the number of the maximum
search step grows, S
EM-SZZ can expand the search scope and
analyze more basic blocks. However, as mentioned earlier, most
bug-inducing commits can be identified by tracing back nearby
lines. Therefore, we can assume that if a basic block is far
from the added lines, it is unlikely to contain lines that can be
traced back to find bug-inducing commits. Consequently, if the
parameter N is set too large and the search scope is too broad,
there is a high probability of including irrelevant statements in
the identified buggy statements, even if these statements have
data flow or control flow relationships with the added lines.
Finally, the inclusion of irrelevant statements in the identified
buggy statements can adversely affect the bug-inducing commit
localization process, resulting in false results.
TABLE VI
THE PERFORMANCE COMPARISONS BETWEEN SEM-SZZ
AND BUGNNINGS
Approach Precision Recall F1-score
BUGNNINGS
BUGNNINGS*
0.51
0.51
0.35
0.50
0.41
0.50
SEM-SZZ 0.68 0.66 0.67
A typical example is commit 5574d329044 [41]. When the
parameter N is set to 3, S EM-SZZ successfully identifies the
correct bug-inducing commit. However, when the parameter N
is increased to 5, SEM-SZZ fails to find the correct bug-inducing
commit. This failure occurs because, with N set to 5, the search
scope becomes too large and includes the statement struct
device *dev = &priv->udev->dev; as one of the
statements contributing to the bug. This statement, located over
100 lines away from the added line, is unrelated to the bug,
despite its data flow relation with the added line.
D. Comparison With Another Semantic-Based Approach
In this section, we compare SEM-SZZ with another semantic-
based approach called BUGNNINGS [42]. This method first
builds program dependence graphs for both the bug-fixing ver-
sion and the version preceding the bug-fixing commit. It then
computes the differences between these two versions of the pro-
gram dependence graph. This helps identify the code statements
that have a dependent relationship with the code changes in the
bug-fixing commit. Finally, the method traverses the commit
history to identify the earliest version that introduced all code
statements with a dependence relationship to the changes in the
bug-fixing commit.
The original implementation of BUGNNINGS is based on
W ALA, a Java program analysis infrastructure, and requires
compiling the program. However, compiling and analyzing a
large program, such as the Linux kernel, takes a very long time.
Considering that our dataset contains tens of thousands of bug-
fixing commits, strictly following the implementation in the
paper would result in unacceptable time consumption.
To address this, we utilize a tool called Joern[43], which can
build the program dependence graph (PDG) from the abstract
syntax tree (AST). We first extract the file content of the two
program versions and use Joern to build the PDG based on this
content. Then, we compare the PDGs of the two versions to
identify code statements that have a dependence relationship
with the changes in the bug-fixing commit.
The experimental result is shown in Table VI. The original
result can be seen in the second row of the table. However,
during implementation, we found that Joern failed to generate
PDGs for some test cases. Therefore, we filtered out these test
cases and obtained the result labeled BUGNNINGS*. Accord-
ing to the table, S
EM-SZZ outperforms BUGNNINGS in both
precision and recall.
The fundamental reason for this is that comparing the dif-
ferences in PDGs is not suitable in this scenario. For example,
consider the commit 7090abd6ad0[44] in Fig. 15. According to
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:26:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 014 =====

3050 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SOFTW ARE ENGINEERING, VOL. 50, NO. 11, NOVEMBER 2024
Fig. 15. A failing example of the BUGNNINGS approach.
the commit message, the bug occurs because the bug-inducing
commit introduces the dma variable but does not set the burst
size. In S EM-SZZ, the data flow of the lpss variable is com-
pared, which correctly locates line 4, highlighted in yellow.
Conversely, BUGNNINGS incorrectly locates the place where
lpssis defined, which is line 1.
In fact, BUGNNINGS often tends to locate line numbers far
from the added lines based on PDGs. As mentioned earlier,
most bug-inducing commits can be found by tracing back the
lines near the added lines. This is the one main reason for its
poor performance. Another reason is its analysis of control flow
dependence. For instance, a newly addedifstatement can have
the control flow dependent relationship with many lines in the
program, often including many irrelevant lines.
E. Threats to Validity
Internal Validity.Threats to internal validity refer to causality,
bias, and errors in the experiment. One potential threat is that we
do not compile the entire source code of the program. Instead,
we utilize the tree-sitter parser to implement fuzzy parsing[45],
allowing us to analyze only part of the program. However,
fuzzy parsing may not accurately reflect the behavior of the
program, especially when the program contains many macros.
This could potentially lead to errors when creating datasets
and undermine the effectiveness of S
EM-SZZ in comparison.
Our implementation of BUGNNINGS faces the same issue,
as we build program dependence graphs directly from abstract
syntax trees. Another threat is the analysis of failure cases in
the discussion. We only randomly selected a subset of failure
cases for analysis which could also result in bias.
External Validity. Threats to external validity refer to the
applicability of our approach to other scenarios. One potential
threat is that we only implemented and evaluated our approach
on the projects in the C programming language. This limitation
arises due to the lack of ghost commits in other programming
languages. This r aises concerns about the portability of our
approach to other programming languages. To enhance gen-
eralization, we evaluate our approach on a larger dataset than
those used in previous studies. Another threat is that, in our
dataset, each bug-fixing commit typically corresponds to only
one bug-inducing commit, which may not reflect real-world
scenarios. In the future, we plan to extend our approach to
more programming languages and collect additional datasets to
address these issues.
Construct Validity. Threats to construct validity refer to the
accuracy of the measures used to represent the concepts in
the study. Our approach might not perfectly encapsulate the
complexities of real-world software development. For example,
S
EM-SZZ cannot handle test cases without changed lines in
functions. Therefore, it is not applicable to the entire dataset.
To mitigate this threat, we power a baseline with S
EM-SZZ
and apply it on the whole dataset when evaluating S EM-SZZ’s
effectiveness.
Conclusion Validity. Threats to conclusion validity refers to
the accuracy of the conclusions drawn from the data. In our
study, we draw conclusions based on a dataset from the Linux
kernel, which may not fully represent other software develop-
ment scenarios. Although we have analyzed the dataset and
found that it includes both small and large commits, similar to
those found in other developm ent contexts, there may still be
limitations in generalizing our findings. To address this, we plan
to extend our approach to include other programming languages
and projects in the future.
VII. R
ELATED WORK
SZZ algorithm Evaluation. The SZZ algorithm and its vari-
ants have been the foundation in numerous software engineer-
ing studies, leading to extensive evaluations by researchers
[33], [34]. Initially, evaluations often involved manual an-
notation, where researchers like Davies et al. [33] manually
annotated 174 bugs across three repositories. However, manual
annotation is time-consuming and may not always yield accu-
rate results, as annotators may lack an in-depth understanding
of the projects. Recognizing these challenges, many researchers
have proposed developer-informed oracles as an alternative.
For instance, Wen et al. [36] collected bug-inducing commits
based on bug reports, while Rosa et al. [35] relied on commit
messages for identification. Despite these advancements, one
persistent issue has been the limited size of available datasets.
Most existing datasets are relatively small, capturing only a
fraction of the bug-inducing commits present in real-world
projects. To address this limitation, Lyu et al. [20] collect a
large dataset based on commit messages from the Linux kernel.
This dataset, being considerably larger in scale, provides a more
comprehensive view of bug-inducing commits in a real-world
context.
SZZ algorithm Application. The original SZZ algorithm and
its variants are widely used by researchers in various empirical
studies within software engineering. These algorithms have
been applied to investigate developer collaboration [46], code
reviews [47], [48], technical debt [49], software vulnerability
[17] and software quality [50]. For instance, Palomba et al.
[51] employed the SZZ algorithm to explore the correlation
between smelly code and code that introduces faults. Similarly,
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:26:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 015 =====

TANG et al.: ENHANCING BUG-INDUCING COMMIT IDENTIFICATI ON: A FINE-GRAINED SEMANTIC ANALYSIS APPROACH 3051
Bavota et al. [47] delved into the impact of the code review
process on the likelihood of introducing a bug. Furthermore, the
SZZ algorithm has also been used to determine the correct ver-
sions affected by a vulnerability in the National Vulnerability
Database [17]. Another broad application of the SZZ algorithm
is in just-in-time defect detection [52], where researchers aim
to determine whether a commit introduces a defect. Datasets
[37], [53], [54] used for just-in-time defect detection are often
collected using the SZZ algorithm. Based on these datasets,
many researchers have proposed models and evaluated their
effectiveness. For instance, Kamei et al. [52] utilized the B-
SZZ algorithm to identify bug-inducing commits and collected
a large dataset for their study. Similarly, Fan et al. [37] investi-
gated the impacts of different variants of the SZZ algorithm on
defect detection.
Factors leading to buggy commits. Researchers have ex-
tensively explored the characteristics of bug-inducing commits,
with a particular emphasis on the factors contributing to their
production [2], [4], [6], [55], [56]. For instance, ´Sliwerski et al.
[6] analyzed the time factor and discovered that commits made
on Fridays are more prone to introducing bugs. Other studies
have delved into the developer factor, including developers’
coding habits and experience. Eyolfson et al. [55] found that
developers who commit code daily are less likely to introduce
bugs, while Bernardi et al. [56] discovered that developers who
communicate frequently with their colleagues tend to produce
fewer bugs. Additionally, Rahman et al. [4] identified that de-
velopers with experience in the target file are less likely to
introduce buggy commits.
VIII. C
ONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK
In this study, we observe that the majority of bug-inducing
commits for bug-fixing commits with only added lines can be
effectively located by tracing back the nearby lines of the un-
modified lines. To further enhance precision, we introduce our
approach, S
EM-SZZ. Our approach leverages data flow analysis
and control flow analysis to compare the states between the
two versions of the program, identifying their difference and
generating the statements contributing to the bug. Subsequently,
we trace back the buggy statements to identify candidate com-
mits. Finally, we employ line similarity comparison to pinpoint
the commit that initially introduced all the buggy statements,
marking it as the bug-inducing commit. The result shows that
our proposed method significantly improves the precision and
F1-score of the baselines in all scenarios, regardless of whether
the bug-fixing commit contains deleted lines. In the future, we
plan to extend our work to other programming languages and
collect more high-quality datasets. Additionally, current meth-
ods overlook commit messages when locating bug-inducing
commits. We intend to leverage large language models to in-
terpret commit messages and code changes, using this informa-
tion to filter out irrelevant lines detected by baselines such as
A-SZZ. Furthermore, our current approach relies on line sim-
ilarity to identify buggy commits. We aim to replace this with
large language models. We hope this can maintain the high
recall of A-SZZ while gaining SEM-SZZ’s high precision.
D
ATA AVAILABILITY
The replication package, which includes the source code,
datasets, and prediction results, can be found at https://figshare.
com/s/a25207be10150e2f0177.
REFERENCES
[1] S. Kim, E. J. Whitehead, and Y . Zha ng, “Classifying software changes:
Clean or buggy?” IEEE Trans. Softw. Eng., vol. 34, no. 2, pp. 181-196,
Mar./Apr. 2008.
[2] G. Bavota, B. De Carluccio, A. D e Lucia, M. Di Penta, R. Oliveto, and
O. Strollo, “When does a refactoring induce bugs? An empirical study,”
in Proc. IEEE 12th Int. Work. Conf. Source Code Anal. Manipulation ,
Piscataway, NJ, USA: IEEE Press, 2012, pp. 104-113.
[3] S. Kim and E. J. Whitehead Jr, “How long did it take to fix bugs?” in
Proc. Int. Workshop Mining Softw. Repositories , 2006, pp. 173-174.
[4] F. Rahman and P. Devanbu, “Owner ship, experience and defects: A fine-
grained study of authorship,” in Proc. 33rd Int. Conf. Softw. Eng., 2011,
pp. 491-500.
[5] G. Canfora, M. Ceccarelli, L. Cerulo, and M. Di Penta, “How long does
a bug survive? An empirical study,” in Proc. 18th Work. Conf. Reverse
Eng., Piscataway, NJ, USA: IEEE Press, 2011, pp. 191-200.
[6] J. ´Sliwerski, T. Zimmermann, and A. Zeller, “When do changes induce
fixes?” ACM Sigsoft Softw. Eng. Motes , vol. 30, no. 4, pp. 1-5, 2005.
[7] S. Kim, T. Zimmermann, K. Pan, and E. J. Jr. Whitehead, “Automatic
identification of bug-introducing changes,” in Proc. 21st IEEE/ACM Int.
Conf. Automated Softw. Eng. (ASE’), Piscataway, NJ, USA: IEEE Press,
2006, pp. 81-90.
[8] D. A. Da Costa, S. McIntosh, W. Shang, U. Kulesza, R. Coelho, and
A. E. Hassan, “A framework for evaluating the results of the SZZ
approach for identifying bug-introducing changes,” IEEE Trans. Softw.
Eng., vol. 43, no. 7, pp. 641-657, Jul. 2017.
[9] E. C. Neto, D. A. Da Costa, and U. Kulesza, “The impact of refactoring
changes on the SZZ algorithm: An empirical study,” in Proc. IEEE 25th
Int. Conf. Softw. Anal., Evol. Reeng. (SANER), Piscataway, NJ, USA:
IEEE Press, 2018, pp. 380-390.
[10] M. Tan, L. Tan, S. Dara, and C. Mayeux, “Online defect prediction for
imbalanced data,” in Proc. IEEE/ACM 37th IEEE Int. Conf. Softw. Eng.,
vol. 2, Piscataway, NJ, USA: IEEE Pre ss, 2015, pp. 99-108.
[11] L. Pascarella, F. Palomba, and A. B acchelli, “Fine-grained just-in-time
defect prediction,” J. Syst. Softw., vol. 150, pp. 22-36, Dec. 2018.
[12] H. Hata, O. Mizuno, and T. Kikuno, “Bug prediction based on fine-
grained module histories,” in Proc. 34th Int. Conf. Softw. Eng. (ICSE),
Piscataway, NJ, USA: IEEE Press, 2012, pp. 200-210.
[13] R.-M. Karampatsis and C. Sutt on, “How often do single-statement bugs
occur? The ManySStuBs4J dataset,” in Proc. 17th Int. Conf. Mining
Softw. Repositories, 2020, pp. 573-577.
[14] G. An and S. Yoo, “Reducing the search space of bug inducing commits
using failure coverage,” in Proc. 29th ACM Joint Meeting Eur. Softw.
Eng. Conf. Symp. Found. Softw. Eng. , 2021, pp. 1459-1462.
[15] M. Tufano, G. Bavota, D. Poshyvanyk, M. Di Penta, R. Oliveto,
and A. De Lucia, “An empirical study on developer-related factors
characterizing fix-inducing commits,” J. Softw.: Evol. Process , vol. 29,
no. 1, 2017, Art. no. e1797.
[16] B. Chen and Z. M. Jiang, “Extracting and studying the logging-code-
issue-introducing changes in Java-based large-scale open source software
systems,” Empirical Softw. Eng., vol. 24, pp. 2285-2322, Mar. 2019.
[17] L. Bao, X. Xia, A. E. Hassan, and X . Yang, “V-szz: automatic identifi-
cation of version ranges affected by cve vulnerabilities,” in
Proc. 44th
Int. Conf. Softw. Eng. , 2022, pp. 2352-2364.
[18] L. Tang, L. Bao, X. Xia, and Z. Huang, “Neural szz algorithm,” in Proc.
38th IEEE/ACM Int. Conf. Automated Softw. Eng. (ASE),Piscataway, NJ,
USA: IEEE Press, 2023, pp. 1024-1035.
[19] C. Rezk, Y . Kamei, and S. Mcintosh, “The ghost commit problem when
identifying fix-inducing changes: An empirical study of apache projects,”
IEEE Trans. Softw. Eng. , vol. 48, no. 9, pp. 3297-3309, Sep. 2022.
[20] Y . Lyu, H. J. Kang, R. Widyasari, J. Lawall, and D. Lo, “Evaluating
SZZ implementations: An empirical study on the linux kernel,” 2023,
arXiv:2308.05060.
[21] E. Sahal and A. Tosun, “Identif ying bug-inducin g changes for code
additions,” in Proc. 12th ACM/IEEE Int. Symp. Empirical Softw. Eng.
Meas., 2018, pp. 1-2.
[22] “The commit of the motivation exa mple,” [Online]. Available: Accessed:
Mar. 15, 2024. https://github.com/torvalds/linux/commit/e9838bd5116
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:26:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 016 =====

3052 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SOFTW ARE ENGINEERING, VOL. 50, NO. 11, NOVEMBER 2024
[23] E. Soremekun, L. Kirschner, M. Böhme, and A. Zeller, “Locating faults
with program slicing: An empirical analysis,” Empirical Softw. Eng. ,
vol. 26, pp. 1-45, Apr. 2021.
[24] M. Weiser, “Program slicing,” IEEE Trans. Softw. Eng. , vol. SE-10,
no. 4, pp. 352-357, 1984.
[25] S. Cao, X. Sun, L. Bo, R. Wu, B. Li, and C. Tao, “MVD: Memory-related
vulnerability detection based on flow-se nsitive graph neural networks,”
in Proc. 44th Int. Conf. Softw. Eng. , 2022, pp. 1456-1468.
[26] F. E. Allen, “Control flow analysis,” ACM Sigplan Notices, vol. 5, no. 7,
pp. 1-19, 1970.
[27] R. S. Boyer, B. Elspas, and K. N. Levitt, “Select—A formal system for
testing and debugging programs by symbolic execution,” ACM SigPlan
Notices, vol. 10, no. 6, pp. 234-245, 1975.
[28] R. Baldoni, E. Coppa, D. C. D’elia, C. Demetrescu, and I. Finocchi,
“A survey of symbolic execution techniques,” ACM Comput. Surveys
(CSUR), vol. 51, no. 3, pp. 1-39, 2018.
[29] G. Rodríguez-Pérez, G. Robles, A. Serebrenik, A. Zaidman, D. M.
Germán, and J. M. Gonzalez-Barahona, “How bugs are born: A model
to identify how bugs are introduced in software components,” Empirical
Softw. Eng., vol. 25, pp. 1294-1340, Feb. 2020.
[30] L. Yujian and L. Bo, “A normalized levenshtein distance metric,” IEEE
Trans. Pattern Anal. Mach. Intell. , vol. 29, no. 6, pp. 1091-1095,
Jun. 2007.
[31] “tree-sitter,” 2024. [Online]. Available: https://github.com/tree-sitter/
tree-sitter
[32] V . Lenarduzzi, F. Palomba, D. Taibi, and D. A. Tamburri, “Open-
szz: A free, open-source, web-acce ssible implementation of the SZZ
algorithm,” in Proc. 28th Int. Conf. Program Comprehension , 2020,
pp. 446-450.
[33] S. Davies, M. Roper, and M. Wood, “Comparing text-based and
dependence-based approaches for d etermining the origins of bugs,”
J. Softw.: Evol. Process , vol. 26, no. 1, pp. 107-139, 2014.
[34] C. Williams and J. Spacco, “SZZ revisited: Verifying when changes
induce fixes,” in Proc. Workshop Defects Large Softw. Syst. , 2008,
pp. 32-36.
[35] G. Rosa et al., “Evaluating SZZ im plementations through a developer-
informed oracle,” inProc. IEEE/ACM 43rd Int. Conf. Softw. Eng. (ICSE),
Piscataway, NJ, USA: IEEE Press, 2021, pp. 436-447.
[36] M. Wen et al., “Exploring and exploiting the correlations between bug-
inducing and bug-fixing commits,” in Proc. 27th ACM Joint Meeting
Eur. Softw. Eng. Conf. Symp. Found. Softw. Eng. , 2019, pp. 326-337.
[37] Y . Fan, X. Xia, D. A. Da Costa, D. Lo, A. E. Hassan, and S. Li, “The
impact of mislabeled changes by SZZ on just-in-time defect prediction,”
IEEE Trans. Softw. Eng. , vol. 47, no. 8, pp. 1559-1586, Aug. 2021.
[38] Line similarity failure example. Accessed: Mar. 15, 2024. [Online].
Available: https://github.com/torvalds/linux/commit/15273ffd7ef
[39] A failing example. Accessed: Mar. 15, 2024. [Online]. Available: https://
github.com/torvalds/linux/commit/072b30642f9
[40] An example to show the effectiveness of program slicing. Accessed:
Aug. 13, 2024. [Online]. Available: https://github.com/torvalds/linux/
commit/bfab7c8ff89
[41] An example to show the impact of the maximum search step. Accessed:
Mar. 15, 2024. [Online]. Available: http s://github.com/torvalds/linux/
commit/5574d329044
[42] V . S. Sinha, S. Sinha, and S. Rao, “Buginnings: Identifying the origins
of a bug,” in Proc. 3rd India Softw. Eng. Conf. , 2010, pp. 3-12.
[43] F. Yamaguchi, N. Golde, D. Arp, and K. Rieck, “Modeling and discov-
ering vulnerabilities with code property graphs,” in Proc. IEEE Symp.
Secur. Privacy, Piscataway, NJ, USA: IEEE Press, 2014, pp. 590-604.
[44] A failing example of the BUGNNINGS approach. Accessed: Aug.
13, 2024. [Online]. Available: https://g ithub.com/torvalds/linux/commit/
7090abd6ad0
[45] R. Koppler, “A systematic approach to fuzzy parsing,” Softw.: Pract.
Experience, vol. 27, no. 6, pp. 637-649, 1997.
[46] M. L. Bernardi, G. Canfora, G. A. Di Lucca, M. Di Penta, and
D. Distante, “The relation between de velopers’ communication and fix-
inducing changes: An empirical study,”J. Syst. Softw., vol. 140, pp. 111-
125, Mar. 2018.
[47] G. Bavota and B. Russo, “Four eyes are better than two: On the impact
of code reviews on software quality,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Softw.
Maintenance Evol. (ICSME), Piscataway, NJ, USA: IEEE Press, 2015,
pp. 81-90.
[48] O. Kononenko, O. Baysal, L. Guerrouj, Y . Cao, and M. W. Godfrey,
“Investigating code review quality: Do people and participation matter?”
in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Softw. Maintenance Evol. (ICSME), Piscataway,
NJ, USA: IEEE Pr ess, 2015, pp. 111-120.
[49] S. Wehaibi, E. Shihab, and L. Gue rrouj, “Examining the impact of self-
admitted technical debt on software quality,” in Proc. IEEE 23Rd Int.
Conf. Softw. Anal., Evol., Reeng. (SANER), vol. 1, Piscataway, NJ, USA:
IEEE Press, 2016, pp. 179-188.
[50] B. Çaglayan and A. B. Bener, “Eff ect of developer collaboration activity
on software quality in two large scale projects,” J. Syst. Softw., vol. 118,
pp. 288-296, Mar. 2016.
[51] P. Fabio et al., “On the diffu seness and the impact on maintaina-
bility of code smells: A large scale empirical investigation,” in Proc.
40th Int. Conf. Softw. Eng., (ICSE), New York, NY , USA: ACM, 2018,
pp. 482-482.
[52] Y . Kamei et al., “A large-scale empirical study of just-in-time quality
assurance,” IEEE Trans. Softw. Eng. , vol. 39, no. 6, pp. 757-773,
Jun. 2013.
[53] T. Jiang, L. Tan, and S. Kim, “Personalized defect prediction,” in Proc.
28th IEEE/ACM Int. Conf. Automated Softw. Eng. (ASE), Piscataway,
NJ, USA: IEEE Pr ess, 2013, pp. 279-289.
[54] S. McIntosh and Y . Kamei, “Are fix-inducing changes a moving target?
A longitudinal case study of just-in-time defect prediction,” in Proc.
40th Int. Conf. Softw. Eng. , 2018, pp. 560-560.
[55] J. Eyolfson, L. Tan, and P. Lam, “Do time of day and developer
experience affect commit bugginess?” in Proc. 8th Work. Conf. Mining
Softw. Repositories, 2011, pp. 153-162.
[56] M. L. Bernardi, G. Canfora, G. A. Di Lucca, M. Di Penta, and
D. Distante, “Do developers introduce bugs when they do not com-
municate? The case of E clipse and Mozilla,” in Proc. 16th Eur. Conf.
Softw. Maintenance Reeng., Piscataway, NJ, USA: IEEE Press: IEEE,
2012, pp. 139-148.
Lingxiao Tang is currently working toward the
Ph.D. degree with the College of Computer Science
and Technology, Zhejiang University. He is cur-
rently under the supervision of Prof. Lingfeng Bao.
His research mainly focuses on software defects and
vulnerabilities.
Chao Ni received the Ph.D. degree in com-
puter software and theory from Nanjing University,
China, in 2020. Currently, he is an Associate Profes-
sor with the School of Software Technology, Zhe-
jiang University. His research focuses on software
quality assurance, including software testing, and
vulnerability analysis.
Qiao Huang received the Ph.D. degree from the
College of Computer Science and Technology, Zhe-
jiang University, in 2020. Currently, he is an As-
sociate Professor with the School of Computer
Science and Technology, Zhejiang Gongshang Uni-
versity, China. His research interests include min-
ing software repositories and empirical software
engineering.
Lingfeng Bao received the B.E. and Ph.D. degrees
from the College of Software Engineering, Zhejiang
University, in 2010 and 2016. Currently, he is an
Associate Professor with the State Key Laboratory
of Blockchain and Data Security, Zhejiang Univer-
sity. His research interests include mining software
repositories, AI4SE, and software security.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:26:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
