between competing approaches. We focus on 66 C and
C++ projects using the version control system Git (see ap-
pendix A for the list). These 66 projects contain 170,860
commits and 718 vulnerabilities reported by CVEs.
3.1 Vulnerability-contributing Commits
In order to analyze the common features of commits that
introduce vulnerabilities, we first needed to find out which
commits actually introduced vulnerabilities. To the best
of our knowledge, no large-scale database exists that maps
vulnerabilities as reported by CVEs to commits. Meneely
et al. and Shin et al. [25, 23, 24] manually created such
mappings for the Mozilla Firefox Browser, Apache HTTP
server and parts of the RHEL Linux kernel. We contacted
the authors to inquire whether they would share this data,
since we could have used that as a baseline for our larger
analysis. Unfortunately, this was not possible at the time,
although the data might be released in the future. To create
a freely available database for ourselves and the research
community, we set out to create a method to automatically
map CVEs to vulnerability-contributing commits. 1
Since at this point we are only interested in CVEs relating
to projects hosted on Github, we utilized two data sources
as starting points for our mapping. As a first source, we
selected all CVEs containing a link to a commit of one of the
66 projects fixing a vulnerability as part of the “proof”. As a
second source for fixing commits, we created a crawler that
searches commit messages of the 66 projects for mentions of
CVE IDs. To check the accuracy of our mapping we took a
random sample of 10 % and manually checked the mapping
and found no incorrectly mapped CVEs. This gave us a
list of 718 CVEs. This list is potentially not complete since
there might be CVEs that do not link to the fixing commit
and which are also not mentioned in the commit messages.
However, this does not represent a problem for our approach
since 718 is a large enough sample to train our classifier.
We then developed and tested a heuristic to proceed from
these fixing commits to the vulnerability-contributing com-
mits (VCCs). Recall that we are operating on Git commits,
which means that we have access to the whole history of a
given project. One (appropriately named) Git subcommand
is git blame, which, given a file, for each line names the
commit that last changed the line. The heuristic for finding
the commit that introduced a vulnerability given a commit
that fixed it is as follows:
1. Ignore changes in documentation such as release notes
or change logs.
2. For each deletion, blame the line that was deleted.
Rationale: If the fix needed to change the line, that
often means that it was part of the vulnerability. Note
that Git diﬀs only know of added and deleted lines. If
a line was changed, it shows up as a deletion and an
addition in the diﬀ.
1We have anonymously uploaded the database
to https://www.dropbox.com/s/x1shbyw0nmd2x45/
vcc-database.dump?dl=0 so the reviewers can access
the raw data during the review process. We will release the
data to the community together with the paper. The file
was created using pg_dump and can be read into a database
using pg_restore. The dump file will create the three
tables cves, commits and repositories in the schema export.
3. For every continuous block of code inserted in the fix-
ing commit, blame the lines before and after the block
Rationale: Security fixes are often done by adding ex-
tra checks, often right before an access or after a func-
tion call.
4. Finally, mark the commit vulnerable that was blamed
most in the steps above. If two commits were blamed
for the same amount of lines, blame both.
Our heuristic maps the 718 CVEs of our dataset to 640
VCCs. The reason we have fewer VCCs than CVEs is that
a single commit can induce multiple CVEs. To estimate the
accuracy of our heuristic, we took a 15 % random sample
of all VCCs flagged by our heuristic (i.e. 96 VCCs) and
manually checked them. We found only three cases (i.e.
3.1 %) where our heuristic blamed a wrong commit for the
vulnerability. All three of the mis-mappings occurred in
very large commits. For example, one commit of libtiﬀ 2
that fixes CVE-2010-1411 also upgrades libtool to version
2.2.8. The method we propose for VCCFinder is capable of
dealing with noisy datasets, so for the purpose of this work,
an error rate of 3.1 % is acceptable. However, improving our
blame heuristics further is an interesting avenue for future
research.
Apart from the 640 VCCs, we have a large set of 169,502
unclassified commits. We name these commits unclassified,
since, while no CVE points to them, they might still contain
unknown vulnerabilities.
At this point we now have a large dataset mapping CVEs
to vulnerability-contributing commits. Our goal now is to
extract features from these VCCs in order to detect further
potential VCCs in the large number of unclassified commits.
3.2 Features
First we extracted a list of characteristics that we hypoth-
esized could distinguish commits. One of our central hy-
potheses is that combining code metrics with GitHub meta-
data features is beneficial for finding VCCs. First, we test
each feature separately using statistical analysis, e.g. for
each feature we measured whether the distribution of this
feature within the class of vulnerable commits was statisti-
cally diﬀerent from the distribution within all unclassified
commits.
Here is a list of hypotheses concerning metadata we started
with:
•New committers are more likely to introduce security
bugs than frequent contributors.
•It is good to “commit early and often” according to
the Git Best Practices 3. Therefore, longer commits
may be more suspicious than shorter ones.
•Code that has been iterated over frequently, possibly
by many diﬀerent authors, is more suspicious than
code that doesn’t change often. Meneely and Williams
[23] already analyzed these code churn features in their
work. We integrate and combine these features below.
Table 1 shows a list of all features along with a statistical
evaluation (cf. Section 3.4) of all numerical features except
2https://GitHub.com/vadz/libtiﬀ/commit/31040a39
3http://sethrobertson.GitHub.io/GitBestPractices/
#commit
429