added or modified file of a commit. We then record the
lines which Flawfinder flags that were inserted by the com-
mit. Consequently, we say that Flawfinder marked a commit
if it found a flaw in one of the lines the commit inserted.
We then evaluated both our tool and Flawfinder against
the test dataset. Table 4 shows the contingency table, pre-
cision and recall for both tools. We argue that precision is
the most important metric in this table and the one which
should be used to compare Flawfinder and VCCFinder, as
this value determines how many code locations a security
researcher needs to look at in order to find a vulnerabil-
ity. While a higher recall would theoretically mean that
more vulnerabilities can be found, in practice they would be
buried in a large amount of false positives. So for now, we
accept that we will not find all vulnerabilities but create an
environment in which it is realistic for a reviewer to check all
flagged commits and achieve a decent success rate. Each row
compares VCCFinder to Flawfinder with a diﬀerent configu-
ration. In the first row, we set VCCFinder’s recall to that of
Flawfinder’s. As can be seen, VCCFinder’s precision is sig-
nificantly higher. Our approach improves the false positive
rate by over 99 %! This is the most realistic configuration,
since this configuration can be used in a real world setting.
For the next comparison, we set VCCFinder’s false posi-
tives to the same number as Flawfinder’s. While of course
the number of false positives is then prohibitively high, VC-
CFinder does find almost three times as many VCCs as
Flawfinder. In the final comparison, we set VCCFinder’s
precision to Flawfinder’s very poor value. While the num-
ber of false positives is prohibitively high, VCCFinder finds
almost 90% of all VCCs compared to Flawfinder’s 24%.
In Table 5 we also compare VCCFinder and Flawfinder
based on their top results. In the first row, we select the top
100 flagged commits, then 500 and finally 1000. Among the
top 100 commits, VCCFinder identifies 56 VCCs correctly,
significantly reducing the amount of commits a security re-
searcher would need to review before finding a commit con-
taining a vulnerability. Compared to FlawFinder, its preci-
sion is more than 50 times higher and it already identifies
more than 25% of all VCCs in the data set at this point.
VCCFinder significantly outperforms Flawfinder in all pa-
rameter configurations. Importantly, we were able to reduce
the number of false positives to the point where it becomes
realistic for reviewers to carefully check all flagged commits.
This represents a significant improvement over the current
state-of-the-art.
We would have liked to compare our approach to more
alternatives; however, since most research papers have not
published the datasets they worked on and since their tools
are not applicable to commits at the scale at which we tested
VCCFinder, this was not possible. We are releasing our
VCC database and results to the community, so that fu-
ture researchers have a benchmark against which diﬀerent
approaches can be compared.
6. TAKE-A W AYS
As the results above show, the performance of VCCFinder
means that it can realistically be used in production en-
vironments without overburdening developers with a huge
number of reviews. Since it can work on code snippets it
can used automatically when new commits come in without
requiring a complex test environment.
TP FP FN TN
Pre
cision
R
ecall
Flawfinder
Top 100 1 99 218 79121 0.01 0.00
Top 500 6 494 213 78726 0.01 0.03
Top 1000 13 987 206 78233 0.01 0.06
VCCFinder
Top 100 56 44 163 79176 0.56 0.26
Top 500 88 412 131 78808 0.18 0.40
Top 1000 105 895 114 78325 0.11 0.48
Table 5: Confusion matrix of the tools by top X
commits. T: True, F: False, P: Positive, N: Negative.
Apart from this, we would like to present some qualitative
take-aways we found while developing and evaluating VC-
CFinder, which can be useful even without using the tool.
While some of these take-aways confirm well-known beliefs,
we found it interesting to see that our machine-learning ap-
proach also came to these conclusions and backed them up
with quantitative data, but also generated new insights.
Error handling is hard.
When looking at the features the SVM learnt by classify-
ing VCCs, we saw that the adage “gotos considered harmful”
[16] still holds true today, as amongst others the keyword
goto and the according jump labels such as out: and er-
ror: increase the likelihood of vulnerable code. We can
confirm this by looking at Table 2. However, we found that
the SVM also flags returning error values such as -EINVAL
as potentially dangerous. Combined with gotos, these are
common C mechanisms for error and exception handling. So
unlike Dijkstra’s argument that gotos are harmful because
they lead to unreadable code, in our context gotos are con-
sidered harmful because they frequently occur in an error-
handling context. So instead of merely detecting gotos, our
SVM gives exception and error-handling code a higher po-
tential vulnerability ranking. Our explanation of this eﬀect
is as follows: because it is easy to miss some cases, exception
handling is easy to get wrong (e.g. Apple’s goto fail bug in
their TLS implementation12).
Variable Usage and Memory Management.
When examining highly ranked features of the SVM, we
noticed that some memory management constructs lead to a
higher vulnerability ranking. For instance, sizeof(struct,
a high usage of sizeof in general, len and length as vari-
able names occurred more often in vulnerable commits. In
addition, we observed that variable names consisting of spe-
cific strings often occurred in VCCs: buf, net, socket and
sk. While the presented keywords and variables alone do
not lead to vulnerabilities, they may indicate more critical
areas of the code.
12https://www.imperialviolet.org/2014/02/22/
applebug.html
435