4.2 Classification and Explainability
While in principle a wide range of methods are available
for learning a classifier for the detection of vulnerability
contributing commits, only few methods scale with larger
amount of data while also providing explanations for their
decisions. One technique satisfying both properties are lin-
ear Support Vector Machines (SVM). This variant of classic
SVMs does not apply the kernel trick for learning, but in-
stead directly operates in the input space. As a result, the
run-time complexity of a linear SVM scales linearly in the
number of vectors and features.
We implement our classifier for commits using the open-
source tool LibLinear [17] that provides diﬀerent optimiza-
tion algorithms for linear SVMs. Each of these algorithms
seeks a hyperplane w that separates two given classes with
maximum margin, in our case corresponding to unclassi-
fied commits and vulnerability-contributing commits. As
the learning is performed in the input space, we can use
this hyperplane vector w for explaining the decisions of our
classifier.
By calculating the inner product between ϕ(x) and the
vector w, we obtain a score which describes the distance from
ϕ(x) to the hyperplane; that is, how likely the commit intro-
duces a vulnerability, f(x) = ⟨ϕ(x),w⟩= ∑
s∈S ws b(x,s).
As this inner product is computed using a summation over
each feature, we can simply test which features provide the
biggest contribution to this distance and thus are causal for
the decision.
Finally, to calibrate free parameters of the linear SVM,
namely the regularization parameter C and the class weight
W, we perform a standard cross-validation on the training
data. We then pick the best values corresponding to a reg-
ularization cost C = 1 and a weight W = 100 for the class
of suspicious commits.
5. EV ALUATION
We evaluate the eﬀectiveness of our approach in several
diﬀerent ways. First, we use a temporal split between the
training and test data to evaluate the predictiveness of the
SVM. We picked 2011 as the split data to have the rela-
tion of two-thirds to one-thirds training vs test data.5 Since
we have the ground truth for the years 2011 to 2014 this
method is the allows us to realistically and reliably test the
eﬀectiveness of VCCFinder.
Dataset
Historical Test Total
CVEs 469 249 718
VCCs 421 219 640
Unclassified commits 90,282 79,220 169,502
Table 3: Distribution of commits, CVEs, and VCCs.
5This is a standard approach to evaluate classifiers. The
first dataset contains all commit data up until the 31st of
December 2010. We use this dataset for the design and
training of our classifier. The dataset can be considered the
‘historical’ dataset. The second ‘testing’ dataset contains
all commit data from 2011 to 2014 which is then used to
evaluate our approach. This simulates VCCFinder being
used in the beginning of 2011 having being trained on all
existing data at the time and then trying to predict the
unkown VCCs of the future (2011 to 2014).
0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0
Recall
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0Precision
combined
code metrics
code
meta-data
(a) Detection performance of VC-
CFinder using diﬀerent feature sets.
0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0
Recall
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0Precision
VCCFinder
Flawfinder
(b) Detection performance of our ap-
proach and FlawFinder as precision-
recall curve.
Figure 1: Detection performance of VCCFinder.
Second, we discuss the features learnt by the SVM as well
as the true positives, i.e. vulnerabilities our classifier found
in the test set. Third, we discuss the commits that are
flagged by our classifier but lie outside the ground truth
we have based on the CVEs. These could either be false
positives or point to previously undetected vulnerabilities.
Finally, we compare our approach to Flawfinder, an open-
source static code analyzer.
Comparing feature sets.
We start with an evaluation of the impact of diﬀerent
feature sets and their combination on the detection perfor-
mance of our classifier. Figure 1(a) shows the precision-
recall curves for these experiments. To this end, we train
a classifier on code metric features and meta-information.
As can be seen, the classifier that combines all the features
(shown in blue) out-performs the classifiers which only oper-
ate on a sub-set of the features, showing that combining the
diﬀerent features is beneficial. Figure 1(b) shows the preci-
sion recall curve of our VCCFinder compared to Flawfinder,
which only operates on code metrics. The comparison with
Flawfinder will be discussed in greater depth in section 5.3.
433