execute the analysis software on the entire project and then
check if any of the warnings relate to the commit. This can
be a considerable amount of work, especially since many
tools require source code to be annotated and dynamic tests
would have to be constructed in a way that triggers the
commit.
Static and dynamic code analysis tools focus exclusively
on the code without the context of who wrote the code and
how it was committed. However, code repositories contain
a wealth of metadata which can be highly relevant to the
code quality. For instance, it can be seen whether a com-
mitter is new to the project or if they are one of the core
contributors. It is possible to see the time of day or night
at which code was submitted and to monitor the activity of
development in certain regions of code. Moreover, most ex-
isting code-metric-based tools have very high false-positive
rates, creating a (sometimes impossibly) high workload and
undermining trust in the eﬀectiveness of the tools. For in-
stance, Flawfinder tool created 5,460 false positives warnings
for only 53 true positives on the dataset used in this paper.
It is intuitively clear that code reviewers who want to find
53 vulnerabilities in a set of 5,513 flagged commits have a
tough time ahead of them.
In this paper, we present a classifier that can identify po-
tentially vulnerable commits with a significantly lower false-
positive rate while retain high recall rates. Therefore, unlike
most existing tools for vulnerability finding, we don’t focus
solely on code metrics, but also leverage the rich metadata
contained in code repositories.
To evaluate the eﬀectiveness of our approach, we conduct
a large-scale evaluation of 66 GitHub projects with 170,860
commits, gathering both metadata about the commits as
well as mapping CVEs to commits to create a database of
vulnerability-contributing commits (VCCs) and a benchmark
for future research.
We conducted a statistical analysis of these VCCs and
trained a Support Vector Machine (SVM) to detect them
based on the combination of code metric analysis and Git-
Hub metadata. For our evaluation we trained our classifier
only on data up to December 31, 2010 and ran our tests
against CVEs discovered in 2011-2014.
In this dataset, our approach, called VCCFinder, pro-
duces only 36 false positives compared to Flawfinder’s 5,460
at the same level of recall. This is a reduction of over 99 %
and significantly eases the workload of code reviewers.
1.1 Our Contributions
In summary, we make the following contributions in this
paper:
•We present VCCFinder, a code analysis tool that flags
suspicious commits by using a SVM-based detection
model. Our method outperforms Flawfinder by a great
margin, reducing the false positives by over 99 % at the
same level of recall. Our methodology is suited to work
on code snippets, enabling us to analyse code at the
commit level and making a lightweight analysis of new
code far easier than requiring a full build environment
to be set up for each test.
•We construct the first large-scale database mapping
CVEs to vulnerability-contributing commits (VCCs).
The database contains 66 GitHub projects, 170,860
commits and 640 VCCs. We conduct an extensive eval-
uation of the methodology used to create this database
to ascertain its quality as a benchmark for future re-
search.
•We present an extensive quantitative and qualitative
evaluation of VCCFinder and discuss take-aways, in-
cluding, for instance that, from a security perspective,
gotos are not generally harmful but in combination
with error-handling code they are responsible for a sig-
nificant number of VCCs.
2. RELATED WORK
The discovery of vulnerabilities in program code is a fun-
damental problem of computer security. Consequently, it
has received much attention in the past. In the following,
we give a sample of the prior work most closely related to
our approach.
Static analysis.
The set of static analysis tools can be thought of as a spec-
trum ranging from faster, lightweight approaches to slower
but more thorough techniques. With VCCFinder being a
lightweight tool, we compare ourselves to FlawFinder [34],
a prominent representative of this class of tools. Other
lightweight approaches include Rats [9], Prefast [8] as well
as Splint [10], the later requiring manual annotations.
Regarding more thorough approaches Bandhakavi et al.
[11] search for vulnerabilities in browser extensions by apply-
ing static information-flow analysis to the JavaScript code.
Dahse and Holz [15] introduced a static analyzer for PHP
that can detect sophisticated attacks against web applica-
tions. Finally, commercial tools like Coventry [5], Fortify [6],
CodeSonar [4], and IBM Security AppScan Source (formerly
Rational) [7] focus on a thorough analysis with configurable
rulesets and consequently long run times.
Symbolic execution.
Cadar et al. [12] present KLEE, a symbolic execution tool,
which requires manual annotation and modification of the
source code. Also the runtime grows exponentially with the
number of paths in the program, which limits the size of
project which can be tested with KLEE. Thus it is not fea-
sible to execute KLEE on the same scale as VCCFinder.
However, it is an interesting area of future work to execute
KLEE as a second step after VCCFinder. Klee would then
only be used on the commits flagged by VCCFinder which
hopefully would significantly reduce the eﬀort needed to run
KLEE. We see these tools as complementary and separate
steps in the tool chain.
Dynamic analysis.
Cho et al. [14] use a combination of symbolic and con-
crete execution to build an abstract model of the analyzed
application and find vulnerabilities in several open-source
projects. Yamaguchi et al. [37] provide an analysis plat-
form oﬀering fuzzy parsing of code that generates a graph
representing code suitable to be mined with graph-database
queries. This approach allows application-specific vulnera-
bility patterns to be expressed; however, in contrast to our
approach, it requires manual specification of these patterns
by the analyst. Holler et al. [20] used fuzzing on code frag-
ments to find vulnerabilities in the Mozilla JavaScript inter-
preter and the PHP interpreter.
427