VCCFinder: Finding Potential Vulnerabilities in
Open-Source Projects to Assist Code Audits
Henning Perl*,
Sergej Dechand†,
Matthew Smith*†
* Fraunhofer FKIE, Germany
†University of Bonn, Germany
Daniel Arp,
Fabian Y amaguchi,
Konrad Rieck
University of Göttingen,
Germany
Sascha Fahl,
Y asemin Acar
Saarland University, Germany
ABSTRACT
Despite the security community’s best eﬀort, the number
of serious vulnerabilities discovered in software is increasing
rapidly. In theory, security audits should find and remove
the vulnerabilities before the code ever gets deployed. How-
ever, due to the enormous amount of code being produced,
as well as a the lack of manpower and expertise, not all code
is suﬃciently audited. Thus, many vulnerabilities slip into
production systems. A best-practice approach is to use a
code metric analysis tool, such as Flawfinder, to flag poten-
tially dangerous code so that it can receive special attention.
However, because these tools have a very high false-positive
rate, the manual eﬀort needed to find vulnerabilities remains
overwhelming.
In this paper, we present a new method of finding poten-
tially dangerous code in code repositories with a significantly
lower false-positive rate than comparable systems. We com-
bine code-metric analysis with metadata gathered from code
repositories to help code review teams prioritize their work.
The paper makes three contributions. First, we conducted
the first large-scale mapping of CVEs to GitHub commits
in order to create a vulnerable commit database. Second,
based on this database, we trained a SVM classifier to flag
suspicious commits. Compared to Flawfinder, our approach
reduces the amount of false alarms by over 99 % at the same
level of recall. Finally, we present a thorough quantitative
and qualitative analysis of our approach and discuss lessons
learned from the results. We will share the database as
a benchmark for future research and will also provide our
analysis tool as a web service.
Categories and Subject Descriptors
D.2.4 [Software Engineering]: Software/Program Verifi-
cation; K.6.5 [ Management of Computing and Infor-
mation Systems]: Security and Protection
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full cita-
tion on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than
ACM must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or re-
publish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission
and/or a fee. Request permissions from Permissions@acm.org.
CCS’15,October 12-16, 2015, Denver, Colorado, USA.
c⃝2015 ACM. ISBN 978-1-4503-3832-5/15/10 ...$15.00.
DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2810103.2813604.
Keywords
Vulnerabilities; Static Analysis; Machine Learning
1. INTRODUCTION
Despite the best eﬀort of the security community, the
number of serious vulnerabilities discovered in deployed soft-
ware is on the rise. The Common Vulnerabilities and Expo-
sures (CVE) database operated by MITRE tracks the most
serious vulnerabilities. In 2000, around 1,000 CVEs were
registered. By 2010, there were about 4,500. In 2014, al-
most 8,000 CVEs were registered. The trend seems to be
increasing in speed.
While it is considered a best practice to perform code
reviews before code is released, as well as to retroactively
checking old code, there is often not enough manpower to
rigorously review all the code that should be reviewed. Al-
though open-source projects have the advantage that any-
body can, in theory, look at all the source code, and although
bug-bounty programs create incentives to do so, usually only
a small team of core developers reviews the code.
In order to support code reviewers in finding vulnerabili-
ties, tools and methodologies that flag potentially dangerous
code are used to narrow down the search. For C-like lan-
guages, a wide variety of code metrics can raise warning
flags, such as a variable assigned inside an if-statement or
unreachable cases in a switch-statement. The Clang static
analyzer [1] as well as the dynamic analyzer Valgrind [3] and
others, can pinpoint further pitfalls such as invalid mem-
ory access. For the Linux kernel, the Trinity system call-
fuzzer [2] has found and continues to find many bugs. Fi-
nally, static analysis tools like Flawfinder [34] help find pos-
sible security vulnerabilities.
Most of these approaches operate on an entire software
project and deliver a (frequently very large) list of poten-
tially unsafe code. However, software grows incrementally
and it is desirable to have tools to assist in reviewing these
increments as well as tools to check entire projects. Most
open-source projects manage their source code with version
control systems (VCS) such as Git, Mercurial, CVS or Sub-
version. In such systems, code - including vulnerable code
- is inserted into the software in the form of commits to the
repository. Therefore, the natural unit upon which to check
whether new code is dangerous is the commit. However,
most existing tools cannot simply be executed on code snip-
pets contained within a commit. Thus, if a code reviewer
wants to check the security of a commit, the reviewer must
426
