===== PAGE 004 =====
tween the disclosed vulnerable functions and the vulnerable
functions that existed in ReactOS, indicated a similarity of
less than 60% in the six cases. Moreover, because VUDDY
is not designed to detect vulnerabilities that exist outside func-
tions, it missed two vulnerabilities.
Finally, VUDDY produced eight false positives, all of
which were caused by abstraction. In the case of a security
patch that changes only its abstraction targets, VUDDY can-
not distinguish between vulnerable and patched functions,
thereby producing false positives.
V1SCAN. V1SCAN discovered 26 vulnerabilities in ReactOS
while eliminating most false positives and negatives produced
by the existing approaches. It is noteworthy that V1SCAN
detected more vulnerabilities with significantly fewer false
positives than the union results of existing approaches.
Here we introduce the LibTIFF v4.0.10 case, which is
reused in ReactOS. V1SCAN could filter out vulnerabilities
of LibTIFF that were not reused in ReactOS (e.g., CVE-2020-
35521). In addition, V1SCAN detected the CVE-2018-19210
vulnerability that was not discovered in the version-based
approach, because the CPE provides an incorrect version
(v4.0.9). Moreover, the CVE-2019-14973 vulnerability, in
which the security patch modified outside functions, was
not detected by the code-based approach but discovered in
V1SCAN. Note that the aforementioned vulnerabilities have
been patched in the latest version of ReactOS.
3
Design of V1SCAN
In this section, we describe the design of V1SCAN, which can
precisely detect propagated 1-day vulnerabilities.
3.1
Overview
V1SCAN synergistically combines version- and code-based
approaches to take advantage of their strengths and avoid
their weaknesses. The key idea of V1SCAN, which is sig-
nificantly distinguishable from existing version- and code-
based approaches is that it classifies reused and vulnerable
codes. Such code classification techniques allow V1SCAN to
eliminate false positives of version-based approaches while
addressing false negatives of code-based approaches.
Figure 2 depicts the workflow of V1SCAN, which com-
prises three phases: classification (P1), detection
(P2), and consolidation phase (P3). In P1, V1SCAN clas-
sifies the reused codes of OSS components and the vulnerable
code locations in the target program based on code classi-
fication (see Section 2.2). In P2, V1SCAN detects vulnera-
bilities contained in the target program by using improved
version- and code-based approaches with code classification
techniques. Finally, in P3, V1SCAN examines the two detec-
tion results and consolidates them to confirm the propagated
vulnerabilities included in the target program.
Target 
program
INPUT
OUTPUT
1-day
vulnerabilities
P1. Classification
P2.Detection
P3. Consolidation
Improved version-based approach
Improved code-based approach
Reused code
classification
Vulnerable code 
classification
Vulnerability
detection
Filtering
false alarms
Vulnerability
detection
Figure 2: High-level overview of V1SCAN.
Design assumption and text preprocessing. We designed
V1SCAN to detect vulnerabilities at the source code level. Al-
though V1SCAN can operate with any granularity unit, we fo-
cus on the function units in the version-based approach, which
are suitable for identifying reused OSS components [36].
Subsequently, V1SCAN extracts (1) all functions from ev-
ery version of the OSS in our dataset (see Section 4.2), and
(2) all functions of the target program, using a function parser
(see Section 4.1). V1SCAN then performs text preprocessing
on all extracted functions to normalize the code; it removes
comments, linefeed, and whitespace from the function codes.
Moreover, V1SCAN uses locality sensitive hashing (LSH),
which hashes similar input items into the same “buckets” with
high probability [33]; therefore, LSH can be utilized to ad-
dress code modifications in a flexible manner.
We applied LSH to all text-preprocessed functions in (1)
the target program and (2) every version of OSS projects.
Each LSH algorithm provides a functionality (Φ) to measure
the distance between two inputs and the cutoff value (i.e.,
threshold θ). Thus, the relationships in which the two func-
tions (f1, f2) are identical, similar, or different can be defined
as follows: let the output of Φ be an integer.
• Identical: If Φ( f1, f2) = 0, f1 and f2 are identical.
• Similar: If 0 < Φ(f1, f2) ≤θ, f1 and f2 are similar.
• Different: If Φ(f1, f2) > θ, f1 and f2 are different.
3.2
Classification phase (P1)
In this phase, V1SCAN classifies reused OSS functions and
extracts code lines, which belong to the locations defined in
the vulnerable code classification, from the target program.
3.2.1
Improved version-based approach
Component identification. The first step involved uncover-
ing the OSS components in the target program, which, how-
ever, is difficult to precisely accomplish [9,36]. Because the
identification of components is beyond the scope of this paper,
we decided to use an existing, well-implemented component
identification tool. We took advantage of CENTRIS [36] be-
cause it can precisely identify OSS components that have been
modified and its source code and dataset are publicly available.
Using CENTRIS, we extracted the names of OSS components
included in the target program. Note that CENTRIS is only
concerned with component identification, and does not di-
rectly participate in vulnerability detection.


===== PAGE 005 =====
Prevalent version identification. We then need to identify
the version of each reused component. However, precise iden-
tification of the version to which reused modified OSS com-
ponents belong is challenging (see Section 2.3). Therefore,
V1SCAN is designed such that it is not critically affected by
the correctness of the identified versions.
Our approach is to first roughly detect vulnerabilities and
then refine the results. In particular, we define the prevalent
version of the OSS component as the version to which the
functions contained in the reused OSS codebase most closely
correspond. To identify the prevalent version, V1SCAN first
compares all functions in the target program with those in
every version of the OSS component. V1SCAN extracts the
OSS functions that are exactly included in the target program,
and then verifies the versions to which each extracted function
belongs. The most frequently identified version is designated
the prevalent version of the OSS component.
Reused code classification. Next, V1SCAN classifies func-
tions reused in OSS components based on the reused code
classification defined in Section 2.2. Because we consider
the function unit in the version-based approach, V1SCAN
classifies reused OSS functions based on code modifications.
When an OSS is reused in the target program, the functions
in the original OSS can be in one of three states: (1) exactly
reused, (2) changed, or (3) unused. Subsequently, V1SCAN
examines the state of all the functions included in the preva-
lent version of the OSS component. We consider the function
relationships defined in Section 3.1.
• Exactly reused functions. If a function in the prevalent
version is identical to a certain function in the target
program, it is considered reused in the target program.
• Changed functions. If a function f ′ that exists in the
target program is similar to function f in the prevalent
version, f is considered a changed function.
• Unused functions. Among all functions in the prevalent
version, those that did not belong to the exactly reused
or changed were included in the unused group.
The changed functions were further classified according
to the version to which they belonged. To this end, V1SCAN
compares f ′ with all functions in every version of the OSS.
If f ′ belongs to any other version of the OSS and is not the
prevalent version, f ′ is stored in the group under the name of
the associated version. In contrast, if f ′ does not belong to
any version of the OSS, it is stored in the “none” group. OSS
functions that do not belong to the prevalent version but are
contained in the target program, as detected in the prevalent
version identification, are also included in the changed group
with their respective version names.
Figure 3 depicts the procedure to classify reused code com-
pared with OSS identification in existing version-based ap-
proaches. V1SCAN stores the hash value of each function
obtained by applying the LSH algorithm (see Section 3.1).
OSS name, 
version
Target program
OSS
OSS name = {
exactly reused : [ f1 ,  f2 ,  … ],
changed
: {
version i
: [ f3′,  … ], …
none 
: [ f5′,  … ]},
unused
: [ f6 ,  … ]
}
(a) OSS identification in existing
version-based approaches
(b) Reused code classification in V1SCAN
Target program
OSS
fi: a function in the prevalent version
f ′
i : a function in the target program similar to fi.
Figure 3: Illustration of the differences between reused code
classification and OSS identification in existing approaches.
3.2.2
Improved code-based approach
Vulnerable code classification. To increase the vulnerability
detection scope, V1SCAN classifies the code locations where
vulnerabilities exist, and then takes an effective vulnerability
detection approach for each location. We considered the fol-
lowing four code locations (see Section 2.2): 1 function, 2
structure, 3 macro, and 4 (global and class) variable.
Code extraction. Subsequently, V1SCAN extracts the code
lines belonging to the location in the target program. In fact,
extracting functions, structures, macros, and variables from
the target program can easily be performed using an exist-
ing C/C++ parser (e.g., [5]). For more accurate vulnerability
detection, V1SCAN further classifies the four locations into
two groups based on the syntactic similarity: (functions and
structures) and (macros and variables). Functions and struc-
tures have in common that multiple code lines are enclosed in
curly braces, while macros and variables generally consist of
only one or two code lines. V1SCAN extracts (1) LSH hash
values (see Section 3.1) and (2) source code lines from all
functions and structures in every C/C++ source file in the tar-
get program. We consider both hash values and lines of code
to reduce false positives in vulnerability discovery (details
are introduced in Section 3.3.2). For macros and variables,
V1SCAN extracts only the corresponding source code lines.
3.3
Detection phase (P2)
V1SCAN detects propagated vulnerabilities in the target pro-
gram, using improved version- and code-based approaches.
3.3.1
Improved version-based approach
Vulnerability detection. V1SCAN detects vulnerabilities in
the target program by using the prevalent version. We used
CPE [21] to construct a CPE database that maps the CVEs
to the affected OSS versions (see Section 4.3). By leveraging
the CPE database, V1SCAN identifies the CVE vulnerabilities
included in the prevalent version of the OSS component. For
example, the CPE of the Heartbleed vulnerability (CVE-2014-
0160) specifies that the vulnerability exists in OpenSSL 1.0.1
to 1.0.1f. If OpenSSL is reused in the target program and
its prevalent version is between 1.0.1 and 1.0.1f, V1SCAN
determines that this vulnerability exists in the target program.


===== PAGE 006 =====
Collection of vulnerable and patched functions. V1SCAN
then removes false positives from the version-based vulner-
ability detection results. To identify the resolved vulnerable
functions, we refer to the vulnerable and patched functions
of CVE vulnerabilities. To this end, we first collected the
security patches for CVEs and then extracted the vulnerable
and patched functions from these patches (see Section 4.3).
Thereafter, text preprocessing is applied to all vulnerable and
patched functions, after which the LSH algorithm is applied
to generate hash values (see Section 3.1).
Filtering. Based on the classification of the reused code,
V1SCAN checks for vulnerable functions and filters out false
alarms from the vulnerability detection results. We consider
the four notations listed in Table 2.
(1) Filtering unused vulnerable functions. The classifica-
tion of reused code simplifies the filtering of the unused
vulnerable functions. If fv is included in the “unused”
group (U), then V1SCAN determines that fv is not reused
in the target program.
∀fv | fv ∈U →fv /∈T( fv is unused)
(2) Filtering resolved vulnerable functions. If developers
resolve fv by backporting security patches, this function
has the same (or similar) code syntax as that of fp be-
longing to the OSS versions that are safe from X. On
this basis, if fv is not included in “exactly reused” but
has a similar function f ′
v in the “changed” group (C),
V1SCAN determines that fv was either reused with code
changes (still vulnerable) or resolved by backporting se-
curity patches. To extract only the latter cases, V1SCAN
checks the version to which f ′
v belongs.
(2-1) If the version is not included in the CPE of X, it can
be determined that f ′
v does not contain the vulnera-
bility. To determine this more thoroughly, V1SCAN
compares f ′
v to both fv and fp. If the distance (Φ,
see Section 3.1) between fv and f ′
v is greater than
the distance between fp and f ′
v (i.e., more similar
to fp than fv), then V1SCAN considers f ′
v has been
resolved. This can be represented as follows; let v
be the version to which f ′
v belongs.
∀f ′
v ∈C |
 v /∈CPE(X)

∧
 Φ( fp, f ′
v) < Φ( fv, f ′
v) ≤θ

→
fv is resolved
(2-2) If f ′
v does not belong to any version of OSS, de-
ciding whether f ′
v is vulnerable based only on the
similarity to the vulnerable function and patch func-
tion may produce a false alarm. Therefore, we put
it on hold and decide whether to filter this vulner-
ability through an improved code-based approach
of V1SCAN (see Section 3.3.2).
Table 2: Defined notations.
Notations
Description
T
The target program.
X
The vulnerability to be examined.
fv
The vulnerable function of X.
fp
The patched function of X.
Here, a CVE vulnerability may (1) contain multiple vulner-
able functions or (2) not include any vulnerable functions. In
the former case, the propagation of only one vulnerable func-
tion may compromise the security of the entire system [12,14].
Therefore, if more than one vulnerable function remains af-
ter filtering, V1SCAN determines that CVE vulnerability has
propagated to the target program. Conversely, in the latter
case, V1SCAN determines CVE as the correct answer without
filtering. This may yield false positives; however, this rarely
occurs (i.e., not found in our dataset) and arises from our de-
cision that a small number of false positives would be more
tolerable than missing vulnerabilities. Moreover, a security
patch may alter the code beyond the scope of a function (e.g.,
a macro). In this case, we put it on hold and verify it at the
code level (see Section 3.3.2).
Finally, the vulnerability detection result of the version-
based approach in which false positives are removed is ob-
tained as the output of this phase.
3.3.2
Improved code-based approach
Vulnerability signature generation. V1SCAN generates vul-
nerability signatures for each collected CVE and uses them
to detect propagated vulnerabilities. Vulnerability signatures
are generated after identifying the location to which the code
lines modified in the security patch belong to. For example,
Listing 1 shows the patch snippet for CVE-2019-12904 in
Libgcrypt. The snippet contains a patch for all four types of
code locations: macro (lines #3 and #4), variable (lines #6 and
#7), structure (lines #9 and #10), and function (lines #14 and
#15). The locations of the code modified in the security patch
are identified using an existing C/C++ parser (see Section 4).
Thereafter, V1SCAN uses different indexing methods for
each code location. Listing 2 presents the indexing results for
the patch code shown in Listing 1. All the code lines added
and deleted in the security patch were stored. For functions
and structures, the LSH hash value is also stored, as described
in Section 3.2.2. We consider hash values for reducing false
alarms in vulnerability discovery. If we were to detect vulner-
abilities by considering only the code lines added or deleted
in a patch, numerous false alarms could occur, particularly
when short and general codes (e.g., else) are modified in
the patch [14, 34]. Therefore, we attempted to resolve this
issue using the hash value of the entire function or struc-
ture. V1SCAN generates vulnerability signatures for all the
collected CVE patches.


===== PAGE 007 =====
Listing 1: A patch snippet for CVE-2019-12904 in Libgcrypt.
1 //libgcrypt/cipher/cipher-gcm.c
2 ...
3 + #ifdef HAVE_GCC_ATTRIBUTE_ALIGNED
4 + # define ATTR_ALIGNED_64 __attribute__ ((aligned (64)))
5 ...
6 - static const u16 gcmR[256] = {
7 - 0x0000, 0x01c2, 0x0384, 0x0246, 0x0708, 0x06ca, 0x048c,
8 ...
9 + static struct {
10 +
volatile u32 counter_head;
11 ...
12
void prefetch_table(const void *tab, size_t len) {
13 ...
14 -
for (i = 0; i < len; i += 8 * 32)
15 +
for (i = 0; len - i >= 8 * 32; i += 8 * 32)
Function and structure vulnerability detection. V1SCAN
then detects the vulnerabilities propagated to the target pro-
gram. To respond flexibly to code changes unrelated to a
vulnerability, V1SCAN focuses on the core code lines that
were added or deleted in the security patch [34,37].
The process of detecting vulnerabilities in functions and
structures comprises two steps.
S1. Hash comparison: First, V1SCAN compares the hash
values of all functions (structures) in vulnerability sig-
natures with those of the target program. If a hash value
that belongs to both the signature and target program is
detected, V1SCAN determines that the vulnerability has
been propagated to the target program. Otherwise, if a
similar hash value is discovered, V1SCAN moves to the
next step, namely, line comparison.
S2. Line comparison: When a similar function (structure)
is detected between the vulnerability signature and the
target program, V1SCAN checks whether code deleted
from (resp. added to) the patch was included (resp. was
not included) in the function (structure) of the target
program. If this is satisfied, V1SCAN determines that
the target program contains the vulnerability.
Here, if we only consider the code syntax in the line com-
parison, as with certain existing approaches (e.g., [35,37]),
false positives or negatives may arise especially when the code
modified in the patch is short and general. Assume that the
code line “else” is added by the patch. This code line may
exist in the vulnerable function. Hence, even if the vulnerable
function is not patched, the function may be misinterpreted to
be safe because it contains the code line added by the patch.
Therefore, we decided to consider the number of times
deleted (added) code lines appear in the target function. Sup-
pose that a security patch deletes the code line ldel and adds
the code line ladd to the function fv. Let the function after
applying the patch be fp. V1SCAN counts the number of
times ldel and ladd appear in fv and fp, respectively. There-
after, when a function f ′
v similar to fv is detected through
hash comparison, V1SCAN counts the number of times ldel
and ladd appear in f ′
v. If the result is the same as that of fv but
differs from that of fp, f ′
v is considered a vulnerable function.
Listing 2: Example vulnerability signature for CVE-2019-12904.
1
MACRO
2
+ #ifdef HAVE_GCC_ATTRIBUTE_ALIGNED
3
+ # define ATTR_ALIGNED_64 __attribute__ ((aligned (64)))
4
5
VARIABLE
6
- static const u16 gcmR[256] = {
7
- 0x0000, 0x01c2, 0x0384, 0x0246, 0x0708, 0x06ca, 0x048c,
8
9
STRUCTURE (HASH: 3A5F116800...)
10
+ static struct {
11
+ volatile u32 counter_head;
12
13
FUNCTION (HASH: BBC0994B88...)
14
- for (i = 0; i < len; i += 8 * 32)
15
+ for (i = 0; len - i >= 8 * 32; i += 8 * 32)
This method can distinguish between vulnerable and
patched functions even when both deleted and added code
lines exist in the target function. Therefore, V1SCAN can de-
tect vulnerabilities with fewer false positives than existing
simple code syntax checking approaches.
V1SCAN can detect exactly reused vulnerable functions
(structures) with the aid of hash comparison and identify vul-
nerable functions (structures) whose code syntax has been
changed using line comparison. This guarantees a higher
vulnerability detection rate than the existing code-based ap-
proach that considers only hash comparison (e.g., [14]) and
lowers the false positive rate compared with the existing ap-
proach that only considers line comparison (e.g., [12]).
Macro and variable vulnerability detection. To detect
vulnerabilities in macros and variables (global and class
variables), V1SCAN compares the lines of code containing
macros and variables in vulnerability signatures to those in the
target program. If all the lines of code containing macros (vari-
ables) deleted (resp. added) by the patch were included (resp.
not included) in the target program, V1SCAN determines that
the target program contains the vulnerability.
If the security patch did not add any lines of code, then only
the deleted lines of code are used to check for vulnerability
propagation. On the other hand, if the patch did not delete
any lines of code, it would be premature to conclude that the
vulnerability was propagated by solely relying on the fact that
the lines of code added by the patch do not exist in the target
program. Thus, V1SCAN omits the latter case to reduce false
alarms. This could yield a small number of false negatives;
however, this decision was made because the addition of lines
of code containing a macro or variables by a security patch
without removing any lines of code from all four vulnerable
code locations rarely occurs.
The vulnerability detection result of the improved code-
based approach in which false negatives are covered is ob-
tained as the output of this phase. Among the vulnerabilities
held by the version-based approach (e.g., existing outside the
function), the vulnerabilities detected in the code-based ap-
proach are included in the detection result as correct answers,
and all others are considered false positives and filtered out.


===== PAGE 008 =====
3.4
Consolidation phase (P3)
By consolidating the vulnerability detection results of the
improved version- and code-based approaches, V1SCAN de-
termines vulnerabilities that exist in the target program.
As explained in P1 and P2, V1SCAN reduces false posi-
tives and negatives in the version- and code-based approach.
The false alarms produced by the version-based approach
were removed through the reuse code classification-based
filtering, and the false alarms of the code-based approach
were prevented by using both the hash and line comparisons.
Moreover, V1SCAN covers the false negatives of version- and
code-based approaches by combining their results. Vulnera-
bilities included in less frequently identified versions (i.e., not
a prevalent version) can be covered by detecting them with
the code-based approach of V1SCAN. In addition, by leverag-
ing vulnerable code classification and focusing only on core
vulnerable code lines, V1SCAN can address false negatives
of existing code-based approaches. Therefore, we denote the
union of the detection results of both approaches as the list of
vulnerabilities contained in the target programs.
4
Implementation of V1SCAN
This section introduces the implementation of V1SCAN, in-
cluding its architecture and the datasets.
4.1
Architecture
V1SCAN comprises the two modules: a dataset collector and
a vulnerability detector. The dataset collector constructs the
OSS and CVE datasets (see Section 4.2 and Section 4.3).
The vulnerability detector performs vulnerability discovery
on the target program, which is implemented in approximately
1,800 lines of Python code excluding external libraries. We
use CENTRIS [36] to identify the OSS components in the
target program. For the parser and LSH algorithm, we utilize
Ctags [5] and TLSH [23,30]. Ctags is a regular expression-
based parser, and has the advantage of scalability and detec-
tion accuracy; it can be used to precisely parse C/C++ source
files without being affected by the code size of the target pro-
gram. In addition, because Ctags provides the functionality
to identify functions, structures, macros, and variables from
source files, it can be effectively used to classify vulnerable
locations. Next, we selected the TLSH [23,30] as the LSH
algorithm, which is both accurate and scalable. We used the
similarity measurement function provided by TLSH as it is,
and selected the cutoff value of 30 (see Section 3.1), which
was observed to be the most efficient in their paper [23].
4.2
OSS dataset
The OSS dataset is utilized for identifying OSS components
in the target program. We leveraged the OSS dataset provided
by CENTRIS [36], which consists of all versions of the 10,241
popular C/C++ OSS projects on GitHub.
Table 3: CVE dataset overview.
Category
Count (#)
• Security patches
4,612
- Vulnerable and patched function pairs
7,675
- Vulnerable and patched structure pairs
106
- Vulnerable and patched macro pairs
221
- Vulnerable and patched variable pairs
598
• CPE database
- Contained CVEs
137,892
- Collected vulnerable software
75,489
- Collected vulnerable versions
559,305
Since the dataset of CENTRIS was constructed in April
2020, we additionally collected versions generated after that
of each repository (as of April 2022). As a result, the number
of versions increased from 229,326 to 246,512 in V1SCAN.
4.3
CVE dataset
For each CVE, V1SCAN first collects the security patch, and
then extracts necessary information (e.g., vulnerable func-
tions) from the patch. V1SCAN then constructs the CPE
database, which is used in the improved version-based ap-
proach. Table 3 summarizes the CVE dataset.
Collecting security patches. We collected security patches
of CVE vulnerabilities by leveraging existing approaches [11,
16, 35, 37]. We examined CVEs in the NVD and checked
whether a “Git commit” URL was included in the references;
this URL provides the code-level security patches. Hence, we
can obtain the security patch commits for CVE vulnerabilities
by crawling the URLs. As a result, we collected 4,612 C/C++
security patches from the NVD (as of August 2022).
Identifying vulnerable locations. Because V1SCAN uses
vulnerable code classification, it is necessary to identify the
location to which the code modified by the security patch
belongs. Each security patch provides (1) a Git index and (2)
code line numbers that include vulnerable and patched code.
We access the index to obtain the vulnerable and patched
source files (e.g., using the “git show” command). We then
parse the source files using Ctags [5]. Using this output, we
can obtain the start and end line numbers of each function,
structure, macro, and variable. Finally, we identify the loca-
tions that contain the modified code lines in the patch. If
the modified code lines belong to a function or structure, the
entire code of the vulnerable and patched function (and struc-
ture) is extracted. If the modified code lines belong to a macro
or variable, the exact lines of code are extracted.
As a result, we collected 7,675 vulnerable and patched
function pairs, 106 structure pairs, 221 macro pairs, and 598
variable pairs. Over 97% of the code repaired by the patch was
included in one of the four locations. The remaining 3% were
code patches that very rarely appear, such as changing header
file names. This confirms that considering these four locations
for vulnerability detection is sufficiently comprehensive.
