ICSE ’22, May 21–29, 2022, Pittsburgh, PA, USA
L. Bao et al.
Table 7: The results of the SZZ algorithms on the common
bugs
B-SZZ
AG-SZZ
MA-SZZ
RA-SZZ
V-SZZ
TP
53
43
47
37
29
FP
26
36
32
42
50
think it is necessary to detect the duplicated changes to get more
accurate vulnerable versions.
6.2
V-SZZ for Common Bugs
Previous SZZ algorithms assume that the previous commits in-
troduced the bugs, but they fail to identify inducing commits for
many common bugs [45]. Thus, we want to investigate whether
some common bugs can be identified by going back to look at the
descendants commits. We run V-SZZ and the previous SZZ algo-
rithms on the bug-fixing commits collected by Rosa et al. [45]. They
built a “developer-informed” oracle for the evaluation of the SZZ
algorithms by identifying bug-fixing commits in which developers
explicitly reference the commit(s) that introduced a fixed bug. We
select the bug-fixing commits from Java projects in their dataset,
which contains 79 bugs.
Table 7 presents the results of the SZZ algorithms. We count
a true positive if the set of bug-inducing commits generated by
SZZ algorithms contains the true inducing commits; otherwise, we
count a false positive. We find that B-SZZ detects the most true pos-
itives than the other SZZ algorithms. This might be because some
bug-inducing commits are introduced by non-semantic lines. For
example, the bug-induing commit for a bug-fixing commit ddbda7
from the project DigitalPebble/storm-crawler is associated with a
comment line. On the other hand, V-SZZ detects the least true pos-
itives. Besides, we check the difference between the set of inducing
commits generated by V-SZZ and the other SZZ algorithms. We find
that V-SZZ cannot detect additional bug-inducing commits. But
if considering all the previous commits and descendants commits
as the bug-inducing commit set, V-SZZ can detect one additional
bug-inducing commit (the bug-fixing commit 78d23a in the project
adamretter/exist). Therefore, we find that most common bugs are
not introduced by the descendants commits, which is different from
vulnerabilities.
6.3
V-SZZ for Large Commits
In this study, we only apply V-SZZ on the vulnerability-fixing com-
mits with small size since manual verification is time-consuming
and difficult. But we think V-SZZ can work on large commits.
Nguyen et al. show that small commits help reduce bias in the ap-
proach. This is because large commits might contain noisy (nonessen-
tial or trivial) changes. But as V-SZZ detects the earliest commits
that modify the vulnerable code, these noisy changes usually in-
troduce false positives (i.e., a version is claimed to be vulnerable
while it is not). In practice, false positives can be accepted since it
requires developers to upgrade to a new version. For false negatives,
developers might ignore it, and the vulnerability is not removed.
Additionally, we can identify the root changes to reduce these noisy
changes by using some existing approaches [47, 55].
6.4
Threats to Validity
Construct Validity. We follow the model proposed by Rodríguez-
Pérez et al. [44], which is based on the idea of “perfect test”, to
annotate the inducing commits for vulnerabilities. However, we
have to create such “perfect test” mentally based on the information
provided by CVEs, which might result in threats in the results. To
mitigate this threat, two annotators discussed the cases in which
we were not sure the true inducing commits. Also, we verified the
vulnerable versions generated by our approach manually. To miti-
gate this threat, we manually checked whether the vulnerable code
exists in the boundary versions. Moreover, to decrease the difficulty
of the manual annotation, we only focus on the vulnerability-fixing
commits with a small number of modifications.
Internal Validity. There might be errors when building the dataset
since the two annotators are not the developers of the software in
the annotated dataset. Both annotators have seven years program-
ming experience in Java and C/C++ programming. Additionally,
two annotators check all the information about a vulnerability
independently and discuss if they cannot reach an agreement.
External Validity. One of the threats is the number of vulnerabil-
ities we analyzed in the study. We analyzed 172 vulnerabilities in
total. But this number is similar to the number of bugs manually
analyzed in the previous studies [11, 23, 44]. Another threat is that
there is only two programming languages (C/C++ and Java). A
previous survey shows that C/C++ and Java covered approximately
65% vulnerabilities [1]. In the future, we plan to investigate more
vulnerabilities with different programming languages.
7
RELATED WORK
In this section, we first present some related work on vulnerabil-
ities analysis, then review the studies about the evaluation and
application of SZZ algorithms.
7.1
Vulnerabilities Analysis
There are many studies that analyze different aspects of vulnerabil-
ities [8, 24, 29, 30, 34, 39, 48]. Ozment et al. studied the evolution of
vulnerabilities in the OpenBSD operating system, and found that
remedying half of the known vulnerabilities cost average 2.6 years
for a release [39]. Shahzad et al. conducted an exploratory study
of vulnerabilities life cycles and found that the vendors have been
becoming more agile in patching the vulnerabilities and the access
complexity of vulnerabilities has been increasing [48]. Nappa et al.
investigated the patch deployment process in ten client applications,
and analyzed when security updates were available to clients and
how quickly clients patched [34]. Huang et al. analyzed 131 patches
from five open-source project, and showed that there exist cases
where patch development was lengthy and error-prone [24]. Li and
Paxson conducted a large scale empirical study with more than 3,000
CVE entries and the related fixing commits [29]. They analyzed the
duration of the impact of vulnerabilities, the reliability of the fix, and
the difference with non-security fixes. Camilo et al. conducted an in-
depth analysis of the Chromium project to examine the relationship
between bugs and vulnerabilities [8]. They demonstrated that bugs
and vulnerabilities are empirically dissimilar groups, prompting us
to investigate the inducing commits for vulnerabilities. Liu et al.
2361
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:19:59 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
