V-SZZ: Automatic Identification of Version Ranges Affected by CVE Vulnerabilities
ICSE ’22, May 21–29, 2022, Pittsburgh, PA, USA
CVE-2018-14884
An issue was discovered in PHP 7.0.x before 7.0.27, 7.1.x before 7.1.13, and 7.2.x 
before 7.2.1. Inappropriately parsing an HTTP response leads to a segmentation fault 
because http_header_value in ext/standard/http_fopen_wrapper.c can be a NULL value 
that is mishandled in an atoi call.ectors.
Project: php-src
- } else if (!strncasecmp(http_header_line, "Content-Length:", sizeof("Content-Length")-1)) {
+ } else if (!strncasecmp(http_header_line, "Content-Length:", sizeof("Content-Length:")-1)) {
- } else if (!strncasecmp(http_header_line, "Content-Length: ", 16)) {
+ } else if (!strncasecmp(http_header_line, "Content-Length:", sizeof("Content-Length")-1)) {
+ } else if (!strncasecmp(http_header_line, "Content-Length: ", 16)) {
Fixing Commit: 0e097f
Previous Commit: 5146d9
Descendants Commit: e1d0a1 
……
Other four descendants commits to change 
the indentation of the modified line
True inducing 
commits
Figure 5: An example for annotating inducing commit from
CVE-2018-14884
The first author and a postdoc who both have more than seven
years of programming experience annotated the inducing com-
mits for the selected vulnerabilities (see Section 4.4). We use Fleiss
Kappa [18] to measure the agreement between the two annota-
tors. The Kappa value between the two annotators is 0.76, indi-
cating a substantial agreement. The two annotators resolved the
disagreements by discussing and reviewing the information of the
vulnerabilities.
4.3
Manual Verification for Vulnerable
Versions
Our proposed approach can generate a set of version tags affected by
a vulnerability. However, we cannot compare them with the textual
description about vulnerable versions in CVE automatically because
the format of the version tags and the textual description about
vulnerable versions vary across projects, see the two motivating
examples in Section 2.2. Hence, we want to verify whether the
set of versions tags generated by our approach is truly vulnerable
versions and consistent with the version description in CVE.
Based on the fixing commits and the inducing commits we an-
notated, we apply our approach to generate the set of version tags.
Then, we manually check whether the boundary versions are vul-
nerable or not. With the same assumption in the study of Nguyen
et al. [38], we think a software version is vulnerable if it contains
the vulnerable code; otherwise, it is not vulnerable. Considering
the version tags in the first motivating example (see Figure 1), we
manually check the boundary versions (e.g., 3.1, 3.2, 3.2.10, etc.) and
find that the vulnerable code exists in these versions. We also check
the non-vulnerable boundary versions (e.g., 3.0.12 (the previous ver-
sion of 3.1), n3.2.11, etc.) and find that the vulnerable code does not
exist in these versions. Finally, we summarize the set of version
tags into a textual description and verify whether the vulnerable
versions we summarize are consistent with the version information
of the CVE vulnerability.
The same two annotators who annotated the inducing commits
verified vulnerable versions generated by our approach. For each
vulnerability-fixing commit, our approach also generate the vul-
nerable versions for the previous commit and all the descendants
commits. Then, the two annotators checked all the boundary ver-
sions manually in the results.
4.4
Vulnerability Selection
Since the manual annotation is time-consuming and labor-intensive,
we select a subset of vulnerabilities from the two datasets described
in Section 4.1. First, we exclude the vulnerabilities using the follow-
ing criteria:
• We ignore the vulnerabilities that are not listed in CVE/NVD
because we need to leverage the information of CVEs as a proxy
of the “perfect test” to annotate the inducing commits. Many
vulnerabilities in the two datasets are not listed in CVE/NVD (see
Table 1). Liu et al. identified 1,462 security bugs associated with
fixing commits and put them into their dataset [30]. Also, in the
Java dataset, 29 vulnerabilities do not have a CVE identifier, and
46 vulnerabilities have been assigned a CVE identifier by a CVE
numbering authority but are not yet published on NVD [43].
• The vulnerabilities whose fixing commits have no deleted lines of
code are excluded. As shown in Table 1, there are 25.5% (1,030/4,037)
and 13.4% (172/1,282) of fixing commits that have no deleted lines
in the two datasets. One reason is that SZZ algorithms cannot
identify inducing commits for those fixing commits since they
assume the deleted lines of code in fixing commits are the same
as or evolved from the lines of code in the inducing commits.
Another reason is that such vulnerabilities are usually founda-
tional (i.e., they exist in their initial versions). All lines of code in
the modified file of the versions before the fixing commits can
be considered as vulnerable [38]. So, the commit in which the
modified file was initialized can be considered as the inducing
commit.
• We also exclude the vulnerability whose fixing commits contain
large changes, i.e., having more than five lines of code. Changed
lines of code in the fixing commits are not necessarily vulnerable,
and it is difficult to identify such lines of code in a large change.
Besides, the manual annotation for inducing commits with large
changes is complicated and time-consuming.
• If the versions affected by a CVE vulnerability cannot be mapped
to the version tags in a software project, it would be excluded
since we cannot verify whether its vulnerable versions are right
or not. For example, all the version tags in the project Apache/-
Tomcat are above 7.0.0 but the version information in some CVE
vulnerabilities might be lower versions, e.g., 5.x.x or 6.x.x.
Among the remaining vulnerabilities, we randomly sample 20
vulnerabilities for each project from the C/C++ dataset (i.e., 100 vul-
nerabilities in total). For the Java dataset, we label all the remaining
vulnerabilities (i.e., 72) covering 41 projects. In total, we annotate
172 CVE vulnerabilities with 188 fixing commits.
4.5
Annotation Results
Table 2 presents the annotation results. In this table, #Descendant-
Commit is the number of the vulnerability-fixing commits that
have descendants commits, #IntroducedByPC is the number of the
2358
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:19:59 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
