V-SZZ: Automatic Identification of Version Ranges Affected by
CVE Vulnerabilities
Lingfeng Bao
Zhejiang University
China
lingfengbao@zju.edu.cn
Xin Xia∗
Huawei
China
xin.xia@acm.org
Ahmed E. Hassan
Queen’s University
Canada
ahmed@cs.queensu.ca
Xiaohu Yang
Zhejiang University
China
yangxh@zju.edu.cn
ABSTRACT
Vulnerabilities publicly disclosed in the National Vulnerability Data-
base (NVD) are assigned with CVE (Common Vulnerabilities and Ex-
posures) IDs and associated with specific software versions. Many
organizations, including IT companies and government, heavily
rely on the disclosed vulnerabilities in NVD to mitigate their secu-
rity risks. Once a software is claimed as vulnerable by NVD, these
organizations would examine the presence of the vulnerable ver-
sions of the software and assess the impact on themselves. However,
the version information about vulnerable software in NVD is not
always reliable. Nguyen et al. find that the version information
of many CVE vulnerabilities is spurious and propose an approach
based on the original SZZ algorithm (i.e., an approach to identify
bug-introducing commits) to assess the software versions affected
by CVE vulnerabilities.
However, SZZ algorithms are designed for common bugs, while
vulnerabilities and bugs are different. Many bugs are introduced by a
recent bug-fixing commit, but vulnerabilities are usually introduced
in their initial versions. Thus, the current SZZ algorithms often fail
to identify the inducing commits for vulnerabilities. Therefore, in
this study, we propose an approach based on an improved SZZ al-
gorithm to refine software versions affected by CVE vulnerabilities.
Our proposed SZZ algorithm leverages the line mapping algorithms
to identify the earliest commit that modified the vulnerable lines,
and then considers these commits to be the vulnerability-inducing
commits, as opposed to the previous SZZ algorithms that assume
the commits that last modified the buggy lines as the inducing
commits. To evaluate our proposed approach, we manually anno-
tate the true inducing commits and verify the vulnerable versions
for 172 CVE vulnerabilities with fixing commits from two publicly
available datasets with five C/C++ and 41 Java projects, respectively.
∗Xin Xia is the corresponding author.
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than ACM
must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish,
to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and/or a
fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
ICSE ’22, May 21–29, 2022, Pittsburgh, PA, USA
© 2022 Association for Computing Machinery.
ACM ISBN 978-1-4503-9221-1/22/05...$15.00
https://doi.org/10.1145/3510003.3510113
We find that 99 out of 172 vulnerabilities whose version informa-
tion is spurious. The experiment results show that our proposed
approach can identify more vulnerabilities with the true inducing
commits and correct vulnerable versions than the previous SZZ
algorithms. Our approach outperforms the previous SZZ algorithms
in terms of F1-score for identifying vulnerability-inducing commits
on both C/C++ and Java projects (0.736 and 0.630, respectively). For
refining vulnerable versions, our approach also achieves the best
performance on the two datasets in terms of F1-score (0.928 and
0.952).
KEYWORDS
SZZ, Vulnerability, CVE
ACM Reference Format:
Lingfeng Bao, Xin Xia, Ahmed E. Hassan, and Xiaohu Yang. 2022. V-SZZ:
Automatic Identification of Version Ranges Affected by CVE Vulnerabilities.
In 44th International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE ’22), May
21–29, 2022, Pittsburgh, PA, USA. ACM, New York, NY, USA, 13 pages. https:
//doi.org/10.1145/3510003.3510113
1
INTRODUCTION
Software vulnerabilities are software security bugs, posing a severe
threat to software systems. They can be exploited by attackers and
result in a security breach or a violation of the system’s security pol-
icy; for example, attackers can control the system or acquire private
data by exploiting a vulnerability. To share information pertain-
ing to publicly disclosed software vulnerabilities, the US National
Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) builds the National
Vulnerability Database (NVD). These vulnerabilities are identified
by CVE (Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures) IDs, containing a
description, an estimation of the severity of the vulnerability, the
know affected software, and related references.
Recently, software supply chain security is increasingly impor-
tant for industrial companies as they usually use many OSS software
in their projects. Due to concern about vulnerabilities in project
dependencies, industrial companies often use Software Composi-
tion Analysis (SCA) tools (e.g., Snyk1 and Whitesource2) to learn
about vulnerabilities in their dependencies. The output of these
SCA tools is based on CVE/NVD information. However, the soft-
ware versions of CVE vulnerabilities are not always reliable. For
1https://snyk.io/
2https://www.whitesourcesoftware.com/
2352
2022 IEEE/ACM 44th International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE)
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:19:59 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
