ICSE ’22, May 21–29, 2022, Pittsburgh, PA, USA
L. Bao et al.
CVE-2015-1830
Directory traversal vulnerability in the fileserver upload/download functionality for blob 
messages in Apache ActiveMQ 5.x before 5.11.2 for Windows allows remote attackers 
to create JSP files in arbitrary directories via unspecified vectors.
Project: Apache ActiveMQ
- String guarded = filename.replace(":", "_").replace("\\", "").replace("/", "");
+  String guarded = filename.replace(":", "_");
+  guarded = FileSystems.getDefault().getPath(guarded).normalize().toString();
-
String guarded = filename.replace(":", "_").
+  String guarded = filename.replace(":", "_").replace("\\", "").replace("/", "");
-
String guarded = filename.replace(":", "_").
+  String guarded = filename.replace(":", "_").
+         
String guarded = filename.replace(":", "_").
Fixing Commit: 729c47
Previous Commit: 9fd5cb
Descendants Commit: 540dd5 
Descendants Commit: e6d20f 
5.x before 5.11.2 
5.x before 5.11.2 
N.A.
Vulnerable Versions
Figure 2: The second motivating example from CVE-2015-
1830
Furthermore, there are a few CVE vulnerabilities that have no
vulnerable versions. For example, the version information of CVE-
2017-5024 is ‘FFmpeg in Google Chrome prior to 56.0.2924.76’. This
vulnerability indeed affects FFmpeg but the version information
only mentions the version of Google Chrome. We identify the
vulnerable version using SZZ algorithm based on and find the
version information is ‘from 2.0 to 3.2.15’
From the first example, we show that the version information in
some CVE vulnerabilities is spurious, and the vulnerable versions
can be refined based on the fixing commits and the inducing com-
mits generated by SZZ algorithms. However, the second example
reveals that SZZ algorithms might not identify the true inducing
commit. Because SZZ algorithms assume the commit that last mod-
ified the buggy line introduced the bugs. However, unlike common
bugs, many vulnerabilities are foundational and introduced in an
earlier version. Therefore, in this study, we want to investigate
whether SZZ algorithms can effectively identify inducing commits
for vulnerabilities and help refine the spurious versions of CVE
vulnerabilities. We also want to improve the current SZZ algo-
rithms to identify inducing commits for vulnerabilities and refine
the vulnerable versions effectively.
3
THE PROPOSED APPROACH
Figure 3 presents the process of our approach. The input of our
approach is a vulnerability with its fixing commits in a software
project. First, we apply an improved SZZ algorithm to identify
inducing commits for this vulnerability. Then, we scan the project
repository to identify the commits that contain the same changes
in the fixing commits and inducing commits. Finally, we infer the
versions affected by this vulnerability based on the fixing commits
and inducing commits.
SZZ for vulnerabilities. As shown in the second motivating ex-
ample in Section 2.2, vulnerabilities can be introduced by a earlier
change on the vulnerable code in the fixing commit. Moreover,
Ozment and Schechter found that more than 50% vulnerabilities are
foundational, i.e., they were present in their initial versions [39].
However, one assumption of SZZ algorithms is that for each line
that is modified by the commits for fixing a bug, the commit that
last modified the line introduced this bug, which is not suitable for
the identification of many vulnerability-inducing commits. So, the
current SZZ algorithms might not identify inducing commits for
vulnerabilities effectively.
Therefore, we propose a modified SZZ algorithm called V-SZZ,
aiming to identify inducing commits for vulnerabilities by going
further back to get earlier changes on the vulnerable code. Similar
to the study of Rodríguez-Pérez et al. [44], we call the immediately
previous commits to the lines changed in the fixing commit as
the previous commits and all the commits that previously mod-
ified the lines changed in the fixing commit as the descendants
commits.
Given each modified line in a fixing commit, V-SZZ first identifies
the previous commit using the git blame command. Similar to
these improved SZZ algorithms [11, 27, 35], we ignore the non-
semantic lines of code, including blank/comment lines and those
involving format modifications. Then, to automatically identify
descendants commits, we first leverage the line mapping algorithm
to map the modified line to the line in the previous version. Then,
we continue to use the git blame command to go back to identify
the descendants commits.
For Java projects, we leverage the abstract syntax tree (AST) map-
ping algorithms [13, 15, 20] to map the modified lines between two
versions of the source code files. We implement the line mapping
algorithm provided by Fan et al. [17].
However, most previous studies for AST mapping algorithms
focused on Java projects and did not provide the implementation
for other languages. Thus, for C/C++ projects, we map the modified
lines considering the string similarity and localization between the
lines. We compute the line similarity based on the edit distance
and set the similarity threshold is equal to 0.75. But this might
result in some incorrect mappings, which would be discussed in
the evaluation (see Section 5). If the line mapping algorithm can
identify a corresponding line in the previous commit or descen-
dants commits, we continue going back by running the git blame
command for the line. This process stops until the line mapping
algorithm identifies the line as a new line, the source code file of
the line is firstly added, or the commit is the initial commit of the
repository.
We consider the earliest commit as the inducing commit for
each modified line of code since vulnerabilities are more likely
to be foundational. Finally, V-SZZ can generate a set of inducing
commits for a vulnerability.
Duplicated change detection. When using Git for software de-
velopment, developers often create multiple branches to manage
workflows of different versions in a project. To apply the change in
a commit among multiple branches, developers often use the git
cherry-pick command to pick it individually or the git merge
command to integrate several changes. We find that the fixing com-
mits or inducing commits of vulnerabilities are often applied to
other branches. For example, in the first motivating example, the
fixing commit 118e1b has been cherry-picked three times.
To infer vulnerable versions accurately, we need to identify all the
commits that contain changes in the fixing commits and inducing
commits. If missing a fixing commit, some non-vulnerable versions
would be considered vulnerable. On the other hand, if missing an
2355
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:19:59 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
