ICSE ’22, May 21–29, 2022, Pittsburgh, PA, USA
L. Bao et al.
example, for CVE-2018-6621 as shown in the motivating example
(see Section 2.2), its version range was ‘in FFmpeg through 3.4.1’
when created on February 04, 2018, but was updated to ‘through 3.2’
after three years (January 05, 2021). Furthermore, Nguyen et al. re-
ported an inconsistent claim between the NVD team and software
vendors in terms of ‘vulnerable version’ [38], i.e., NVD claimed
vulnerable versions were taken from software vendors; whereas,
software vendors claimed they did not know about this information.
Additionally, Nguyen et al. reported that NVD usually applies a
conservative rule: “If version X is vulnerable, then so are all its pre-
vious versions” [38]. So, many earlier versions of software might be
incorrectly marked as vulnerable due to this bias. These erroneous/-
conservative vulnerable versions would cause additional work for
software companies. Additionally, many proprietary software sys-
tems might use an older version of an OSS software due to many
reasons, for example, updating a newer version may break function-
ality. Once a vulnerability in an OSS software is publicly disclosed
in the NVD, software vendors need to remediate its risk within a
specified time according to remediation service level agreements
(e.g., fix a vulnerability within 14 days3). Thus, if a tool can con-
firm that the vulnerability does not affect the OSS software they
use, software vendors do not need to upgrade it and save lots of
resources and time.
Previous research has typically focused on vulnerability man-
agement [19, 42, 48], or patches for vulnerabilities [8, 24, 29, 30, 48].
Few studies have investigated how to refine the software versions
affected by CVE vulnerabilities. In a previous study, Nguyen et
al. [38] proposed an approach, built on the inducing commits gen-
erated by the original SZZ algorithm [51], to detect spurious claims
on vulnerable versions in NVD. They revealed systematic spurious
vulnerability claims, i.e., NVD reported vulnerable, but there is
no code evidence for the presence of the vulnerability. However,
the original SZZ algorithm is designed to detect inducing commits
for common bugs. A previous study [8] found that the empirical
connection between bugs and vulnerabilities is considerably weak
by evaluating code review effectiveness and participant experience.
Many bugs are introduced by a recent bug-fixing commit [44], while
vulnerabilities are usually foundational [39], i.e., introduced in their
initial versions. Additionally, many SZZ variants have been pro-
posed to boost the accuracy of the original SZZ [11, 12, 27, 59].
There are many difficulties to identify the bug-inducing commits
by SZZ algorithms accurately [44, 45]. Therefore, we want to inves-
tigate whether the previous SZZ algorithms can identify inducing
commits for CVE vulnerabilities and refine vulnerable versions
based on inducing commits effectively.
In this study, we propose an approach based on an improved
SZZ algorithm (called V-SZZ) for vulnerabilities to refine software
versions affected by CVE vulnerabilities. To annotate the true in-
ducing commits for vulnerabilities, we follow the model proposed
by Rodríguez-Pérez et al. [44], which is designed for bug-inducing
commit annotation. We choose two two publicly available datasets
with vulnerability-fixing commits, containing five C/C++ and 41
Java projects, respectively. For the C/C++ dataset, we randomly
select 20 CVEs with small size fixing commits (i.e, have larger than
3https://www.ivanti.com/blog/industry-driving-toward-14-day-sla-vulnerability-
remediation
zero and less than or equal to five deleted lines) for each project. For
the Java project, we select all CVEs with small size fixing commits.
Finally, we annotated 172 CVE vulnerabilities. We run V-SZZ on
the annotated vulnerability fixing commits to identify the inducing
commits. Then, we identify the vulnerable versions based on the
inducing commits generated by V-SZZ. We also select the origi-
nal SZZ algorithm and its three variants (AG-SZZ, MA-SZZ, and
RA-SZZ) as the baselines. The experiment results show that V-SZZ
can correctly identify inducing commits for 88 and 59 vulnerabili-
ties from C/C++ and Java datasets, respectively. V-SZZ also has a
higher F1-score on C/C++ and Java datasets (0.736 and 0.630) than
the previous SZZ algorithms.
To verify the software versions affected by CVE vulnerabilities,
we first generate vulnerable versions based on the inducing com-
mits we annotated. Then, we manually check the presence of the
vulnerable code in the boundary versions to investigate whether
the generated vulnerable versions are correct. Finally, we compare
them with the version information of CVE vulnerabilities. We also
identify vulnerable versions based on the inducing commits gen-
erated by V-SZZ and the previous SZZ algorithms. We find that
99 out of 172 vulnerabilities’ version information is spurious. The
experiment results show that our approach based on V-SZZ has a
higher F1-score on C/C++ (0.928) and Java dataset (0.952) than the
previous SZZ algorithms.
Our contributions can be summarized as follows:
(1) We build a dataset linking 172 CVE vulnerabilities and their
inducing commits. This dataset covers vulnerabilities from five
C/C++ projects and 41 Java projects. We also manually verify
the software versions affected by these vulnerabilities and find
that the version information of many CVE vulnerabilities is
spurious.
(2) We propose an approach based on an improved SZZ algorithm
(V-SZZ) to refine software versions affected by CVE vulnera-
bilities. The experiment results show that our approach can
effectively identify inducing commits for vulnerabilities and
refine vulnerable versions based on the inducing commits gen-
erated by V-SZZ.
Paper Structure: Section 2 describes the background of the SZZ
algorithms and demonstrates two motivating examples. Section 3
presents our approach based on an improved SZZ to refine vulner-
able versions for vulnerabilities in NVD. Section 4 describes the
manual annotation for inducing commits for vulnerabilities and
verification of vulnerable versions. Section 5 shows the results of
our approach on identifying inducing commits, and refining vul-
nerable versions for vulnerabilities. Section 6 discusses the impact
of duplicated changes on detecting vulnerable versions, the differ-
ence between vulnerabilities and common bugs, and the threats to
validity. Section 7 reviews related work. Section 8 concludes the
paper and discusses future directions.
2
BACKGROUND
In this section, we first introduce the original SZZ and its variants,
then we show two motivating examples.
2353
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:19:59 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
