V-SZZ: Automatic Identification of Version Ranges Affected by CVE Vulnerabilities
ICSE ’22, May 21–29, 2022, Pittsburgh, PA, USA
Fixing commit
line1
git blame
line1
…
linen
Previous commits / 
Descendants commits
linei
Line Mapping
Change 
Type
linei
’
Vulnerable 
Versions Tags
Duplicated 
Change Detection
Fixing commits
Inducing commits
Vulnerable version
Common commits
Branch 1
Branch 2
Duplicated fixing commit
Non-vulnerable version
Inserted /
New File /
Init Commit
Vulnerable Version Detection
SZZ for Vulnerability
Figure 3: The proposed approach
561cbe
715feb
Figure 4: Two commits in the project OpenSSL with the same
change
inducing commit, some vulnerable versions would be considered
as not vulnerable.
To detect the cherry-picked commits for a commit, we can search
its commit id in the commit message because a sentence with the
following pattern is automatically generated in the commit mes-
sage: “cherry picked from commit xxx”. However, some commits can
be copied to another branch without explicit information in the
commit message. For example, Figure 4 present two commits with
the same change from the project OpenSSL. The below commit in
the figure is copied from the above commit for an upgrade. We use
a hash-based duplicated change detection method to identify the
commits copied to other branches without explicit messages. We
first hash the hunks of all commits in a project repository. Given a
commit, we search for the commits that contain all the hashes in it.
Vulnerable version detection. In this step, we want to identify
the versions affected by a vulnerability based on a set of fixing com-
mits and their corresponding inducing commits. In a Git workflow,
project maintainers usually assign a tag to a commit for a release
version, such as ‘‘n3.1’ in FFmpeg and ‘OpenSSL_1_0_0-stable’ in
OpenSSL. Hence, our goal is to identify these commits with ver-
sion tags that are affected by a vulnerability. The idea is intuitive,
i.e., the vulnerability introduced by the inducing commits will be
transferred to the future commits until it gets fixed. Thus, the vul-
nerable versions are between the inducing commits and the fixing
commits. We first identify the commits with version tags that are
reachable to the inducing commits (denoted as Ci). A commit A is
reachable to another commit B, indicating that A belongs to the
parents or the ancestor commits of B. We also identify the commits
with version tags that are reachable to the fixing commits (denoted
as Cf ). Then, we can get the set of the vulnerable versions Cv, i.e.,
the set difference of Ci and Cf (i.e., Ci −Cf ).
As shown in Figure 3, the two commits in green color are not
vulnerable because the one in the first branch is after a fixing
commit and the other one in the second branch is not reachable
to the inducing commit. The vulnerable versions in the figure are
marked as brown. Finally, the output of this step is a set of version
tags that are affected by a vulnerability, see an example in Figure 1.
4
MANUAL ANNOTATION
To investigate the effectiveness of the SZZ algorithms, we need a
ground truth linking vulnerabilities and the true inducing commits.
However, to the best of our knowledge, no such ground truth ex-
ists. Nguyen et al. manually verified the results generated by their
approach for 80 vulnerabilities from two projects, but they did not
make the dataset public [38]. Thus, in this section, we aim to build a
ground truth linking vulnerabilities and their corresponding induc-
ing commits. We first select two datasets with vulnerability-fixing
commits. Then, we annotate the inducing commits for vulnerabili-
ties by following the model proposed by Rodríguez-Pérez et al. [44],
and manually verify the vulnerable versions based on the anno-
tated inducing commits. Finally, we present the results of manual
annotation.
4.1
Dataset
To investigate whether our proposed approach can detect induc-
ing commits for vulnerabilities and refine vulnerable versions ef-
fectively, we select two datasets of vulnerability-fixing commits
containing projects written in two programming languages, i.e.,
C/C++ [30] and Java [43], respectively. Table 1 presents the statis-
tics of the vulnerabilities and the corresponding fixing commits
in the two datasets. In this table, #Vul and #VFC are the number
of the vulnerabilities and the fixing commits, respectively. Notice
that some vulnerabilities have multiple fixing commits. We also
count the vulnerability fixing commits that have no deleted lines
2356
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:19:59 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
