# I. INTRODUCTION

Patches to buggy code are often not propagated to code
clones in real OS distributions. For example, the following
patch was issued for Expat, a widely used XML parser to
ﬁx a bounds checking bug in August 2009.
const char *end,
POSITION *pos)
{
-
while (ptr != end) {
+
while (ptr < end) {
switch (BYTE_TYPE(enc, ptr)) {
#define LEAD_CASE(n) \
case BT_LEAD ## n: \
Listing 1: CVE-2009-3720
This bug, when exploited, causes a denial of service
to the victim [14]. While the above patch ﬁxed Expat in
2009, an additional 386 locations across various Debian,
Ubuntu, and SourceForge packages currently have clones
of the exact same buggy code, all of which are also likely
to be vulnerable. We call such bugs unpatched code clones.
In this paper we present ReDeBug, a lightweight syntax-
based code clone detection system that identiﬁes unpatched
code clones at scale. We have used ReDeBug to analyze
entire OS distributions to understand the current situation of
unpatched code clones: 1) how much (potentially) vulnerable
code can an attacker identify when a patch is released, 2)
how responsive is the new version of an OS to known secu-
rity vulnerabilities, and 3) how many persisting unpatched
code clones are from the previous version of an OS to the
latest version of an OS.
Existing research has focused on methods for improving
the number of code clones detected, e.g., [21, 23–25]. While
advancements in ﬁnding more code clones is important,
current algorithms make several trade-offs:
• Scalability: To give a sense of the scale necessary to
ﬁnd all unpatched code clones, consider that Debian
Lenny currently contains over 210 million lines of non-
empty, non-comment lines of C code alone. Current
approaches focus on ﬁnding as many code clones as
possible, not scale. For example, Deckard [23] was
applied to the Linux kernel and JDK, but could not
scale to the entire Debian Lenny code base, and started
consuming more than 20GB of memory in less than 2
minutes. In big development houses one can use clus-
ters of computers to make the approaches scale [21].
However, solutions that can ﬁnd a competitive number
of code clones without requiring clusters are relevant
because they are cheaper to run (thus can be run more
often) and are applicable to the wider number of de-
velopers who don’t readily have distributed computing
resources.
• Lack of support for many different languages: Since
OS distributions include programs written in a variety
of languages such as C/C++, Java, Shell, Python, Perl,
Ruby, and PHP, we want techniques that are language
agnostic. Current research such as Deckard [23], CP-
Miner [25], CCFinder [24], and Deja Vu [21] ﬁrst parse
the program and use a variety of matching heuristics
based upon high-level code representations such as
CFGs and parse trees. However, implementing robust
parsers for many different languages is a very difﬁcult
problem [7].
2012 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy
© 2012, Jiyong Jang. Under license to IEEE.
DOI 10.1109/SP.2012.13
48
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:35:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


===== PAGE 002 =====
• High false detection rate: The advanced heuristics
used to ﬁnd more code clones introduce a high false
detection rate, i.e., a large number of false code clones
are reported. For example, Deja Vu boasts the highest
accuracy we are aware of at 26-34%, meaning 66-74%
are false code clones. That’s 2 out of every 3 reports.
A considerable amount of resources would be wasted
to inspect all the reported cases.
ReDeBug tackles a new point in the design space where
we trade more expensive, yet thorough, pattern matching
algorithms for speed, scalability, and a language-agnostic
property:
• Scalability: ReDeBug uses a syntax-based pattern
matching approach that can be implemented using
extremely efﬁcient data structures which allow fast
querying for code clones when given a patch. ReDeBug
processed source code into a database at about 700,000
LoC/min on a commodity desktop. This database of
over 2.1 billion lines of code can then be queried in less
than 8 minutes. Therefore, ReDeBug can also be used
as part of the normal development and patch process
on hardware available to an average developer or user,
e.g., an average desktop.
• Language agnostic: Roughly speaking, ReDeBug per-
forms simple normalization where all whitespace is
removed and all characters are transformed to their
lower-case equivalent. Such simple normalization al-
lows ReDeBug to identify a variety of latent security
vulnerabilities in programs written in many different
languages. Interestingly, in our evaluation, Deckard –
a tree-based code clone detection technique – missed
6x more code clones than ReDeBug, not counting
languages handled by ReDeBug but not supported by
Deckard (§ IV-A).
• Lower false detection rate: ReDeBug focuses on de-
creasing false detection rate by using a close-to-exact
matching instead of fuzzier matching employed by pre-
vious code clone work. This means we may ﬁnd fewer
unpatched code clones, but that we will also have fewer
false positives due to mis-matches. ReDeBug has false
positives when vulnerable code is not detected as dead
code by the underlying compiler, and when a previously
identiﬁed vulnerable code segment is used in a way
that makes it non-exploitable. Deja Vu and similar
approaches have similar sources of false detection, plus
errors in the matching algorithms themselves [21, 23–
25]. As a result, Deja Vu had a false detection rate
of 66-74%, which is on the better end of similar code
clone detection mechanisms [21, 23–25]. ReDeBug has
zero errors due to matching, thus does not suffer from
the major source of false positives found in previous
work.
We have used ReDeBug to check for unpatched code
clones in Debian 6.0 Squeeze (348,754,939 LoC 1), De-
bian 5.0 Lenny (257,796,235 LoC), Ubuntu 11.10 Oneiric
(397,399,865 LoC), Ubuntu 10.10 Maverick (245,237,215
LoC), Linux Kernel (8,968,871 LoC), and all C/C++
projects at SourceForge (922,424,743 LoC). So far, Re-
DeBug has found 15,546 unpatched code clones in the
total 2,180,581,868 LoC by checking 376 Debian/Ubuntu
security-related patches. The patches address a variety of
issues ranging from buffer overﬂows, to information dis-
closure vulnerabilities, to denial of service vulnerabilities.
Our measurements indicate that even though ReDeBug is
simpler, it actually ﬁnds a comparable number of code clones
to existing approaches (§ IV-A).
Previous work has shown that once a patch is released, an
attacker can use the patch to reverse engineer the bug and
automatically create an exploit in only a few minutes [10].
Our experiments indicate one security implication of ReDe-
Bug is an attacker, using a single laptop, could potentially
ﬁnd thousands of vulnerable applications among billions of
lines of code in only a few minutes once a patch is released,
assuming he has already preprocessed the code.
In addition to ﬁnding unpatched code clones, we have
conducted the ﬁrst study of the amount of code cloning in
the entire Debian Lenny source base. By performing pair-
wise comparison among functions, ReDeBug provides the
distribution of function pairs based upon their similarity (see
§ III-H)
Overall, our main contributions are:
• We analyze entire OS distributions to comprehend the
current trends of unpatched code clones. To the best
of our knowledge, ReDeBug is the ﬁrst tool to explore
over 2.1 billion lines of entire OS distributions to under-
stand unpatched code clone problems. We show that un-
patched code clones are a recurring problem in modern
distributions, and ﬁnd 15,546 unpatched code clones
from Debian Lenny/Squeeze, Ubuntu Maverick/Oneiric
distributions, the Linux kernel, and SourceForge. So far,
ReDeBug has conﬁrmed 145 real bugs.
• We describe ReDeBug, which suggests a new design
space for code clone detection in terms of scalability,
speed, and false detection rate. In particular, the design
point makes ReDeBug realistic for use by typical de-
velopers in everyday environments in order to improve
the security of their code by quickly querying known
vulnerabilities.
• We provide the ﬁrst empirical measurement of the
total amount of copied code in OS distributions. This
suggests that in the future, unpatched code clones will
continue to be important and relevant.
1We always count non-empty, non-comment lines.
49
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:35:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


===== PAGE 003 =====
