# II. REDEBUG

A. The Core System
Finding all unpatched code clones is tricky and involves
numerous considerations. For example, how many lines of
code need to be similar for a case to be reported? Is one
copied line enough, or are we only interested in multiple
line matches? Should whitespace matter? Should the order
of statements matter, and if so, should we only consider
some syntactic classes? Do we consider the syntactic text,
tokens, or the parse of ﬁles? For example, in C the order
of declarations likely does not matter, but the order of
computation may. What if two segments are equivalent up
to variable naming? What about semantic equivalence, e.g.,
one code sequence multiples by 2 while the other performs
a logical left shift. Are these similar or different?
These questions all involve trade-offs between accuracy,
efﬁciency, and how easy it is to implement a robust algo-
rithm. For example, consider code that is the same up to
variable names and variable declaration order. A straight
string match of the ﬁles may ﬁnd virtually no commonality.
We could certainly address these problems by normalizing
declaration order, and parse code to determine variable name
equivalence (so-called α-equivalence) [11]. However, run-
ning such algorithms require we implement parsing engines
(which can be fragile) and run additional algorithms that
cost time, thus reducing overall throughput. If we are not
careful we may end up subtly analyzing a model of the
original program that is not right, e.g., declaration order
matters when looking for buggy code clones of incorrect
shadow variable declarations.
ReDeBug’s choices are motivated by the design space
goals of: (1) focusing on unpatched code clones, (2) scaling
to large and diverse code bases such as OS distributions, (3)
minimizing false detection, (4) being modular when possible
and offer a user choice of parameters, and (5) be language-
agnostic as much as possible so that we work with the wealth
of languages found within an OS distribution code base. The
core of the ReDeBug system accomplishes these goals using
the following steps:
1) ReDeBug normalizes each ﬁle. By default ReDeBug
removes typical language comments, removes all non-
ASCII characters, removes redundant whitespace ex-
cept new lines, and converts all characters to lower
case. We also ignore curly braces if the ﬁle is C, C++,
Java, or Perl (as identiﬁed by extension or the UNIX
file command).
Normalization is modularized so that the exact nor-
malization steps can easily be changed.
2) The normalized ﬁle is tokenized based upon new lines
and regex substrings.
3) ReDeBug slides a window of length n over the token
stream. Each n tokens are considered a unit of code
to compare.
4) Given two sets fa and fb of n-tokens, we compute the
amount of code in common. When ﬁnding unpatched
code clones, if fa is the original buggy code snippet
we calculate
CONTAINTMENT(fa, fb) = |fa ∩fb|
|fa|
(1)
When we want to measure the total amount of sim-
ilarity between ﬁles, we calculate the percentage of
tokens in common (i.e., the Jaccard index):
SIMILARITY(fa, fb) = |fa ∩fb|
|fa ∪fb|
(2)
With either calculation it is common to only con-
sider cases where the similarity or containment is
greater than or equal to some pre-determined threshold
θ. In our implementation, we also perform obvious
optimizations such as when θ = 1 only verifying
fa ⊆fb instead of calculating an actual ratio for
CONTAINMENT.
5) ReDeBug performs an exact match test on the iden-
tiﬁed unpatched code clones to remove Bloom ﬁlter
errors. ReDeBug also uses the compiler to identify
when a code clone is dead code when possible.
For example, suppose we have two ﬁles A = t1t2t3t4
and B = t1t3t4t2 where each ti is a token (note to-
kens are written in the order that they appear in the
ﬁle). The tokenization is then A = {t1, t2, t3, t4} and
B = {t1, t3, t4, t2}. When n = 2, there are 3 2-token
strings in each set: fA = {(t1, t2), (t2, t3), (t3, t4)} and
fB = {(t1, t3), (t3, t4), (t4, t2)}. The similarity is 1/5 since
1 out of 5 2-token sets are shared, (t3, t4), even though the
shared token sequence appears at different places in the ﬁle.
As a result, ReDeBug works with reordering, insertions, and
deletions of up to n-tokens.
ReDeBug is parametrized in two ways: the number of
consecutive tokens to consider together, n, and the threshold,
θ. n determines the sensitivity for statement reordering,
e.g., if n = 1 then statement order does not matter at all,
n = 2 looks at statement pairs, and so on. θ acts as a
knob to tell us what is a signiﬁcant amount of copying.
When θ = 1, two ﬁles must have exactly the same n-tokens
(after normalization). When θ = 0, any match is considered
signiﬁcant. Values in between represent thresholds for the
amount of similarity of interest. There is no “right” value
for these parameters. In our experiments we show typical
values that produce meaningful results. For example, n = 4
works well with existing patches.
Design point comparison: Our approach is in stark contrast
with current research trends in code clone detection, such as
Deckard [23], CP-Miner [25], Deja Vu [21], and others [1,
24], that focus on minimizing missed code clones at the
expense of other factors. These approaches also normalize
the code, but then perform additional steps such as parsing
50
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:35:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


===== PAGE 004 =====
// Original buggy code
char buf[8];
strcpy(buf, input);
// Possible patch 1
char buf[8];
- strcpy(buf, input);
+ strncpy(buf, input, 8);
// Possible patch 2
char buf[8];
+ if(strlen(input) < 8)
strcpy(buf, input);
Figure 1: Buggy code example and two possible patches
the code into high-level representations like parse trees and
control ﬂow graphs. They then employ advanced fuzzy
matching algorithms on the abstractions to ﬁnd additional
code clones that we may miss. On the other hand, they
may report more false code clones, which require signiﬁcant
human effort to inspect all the reported cases. Furthermore,
it is known to be very hard to implement good parsers [7].
Overall, the main difference is by employing simpler
techniques that is language agnostic, we can focus on ef-
ﬁcient data structures and algorithms and ultimately scale to
much larger code bases written in many different languages.
Our techniques may miss some clones, but minimize false
clone detection rate. This is important for at least two
reasons. First, by checking all code in a distribution quickly
we can make basic guarantees that at least syntactically
similar unpatched code clones do not exist. Second, we
can conservatively estimate the amount of code cloning in
existing large code bases. The more advanced algorithms in
the above work have not demonstrated they can make either
claim.
B. Unpatched Code Clone Detection
At a high level, there are two approaches to ﬁnd unpatched
code clones in OS distributions: (1) ﬁrst ﬁnd all code clones
among the source and then check if a patch applies to copies,
or (2) check for clones of only the patched code. Previous
work has focused on techniques for ﬁnding all clones such
as in (1). This makes sense when doing bug ﬁnding on
whole code bases is cheaper to do on unique code snippets.
ReDeBug takes approach (2) because we only want to ﬁnd
clones of the original unpatched buggy code.
ReDeBug looks for unpatched code clones where patches
are in UNIX uniﬁed diff format. Uniﬁed diffs are pop-
ular among open source kernel developers, OS distribution
maintainers, and are well-integrated into popular revision
control systems like Subversion [12].
A uniﬁed diff patch consists of a sequence of diff hunks.
Each hunk contains the changed ﬁlename, and a sequence of
additions and deletions. Added source code lines are preﬁxed
by a “+” symbol, and deletions are preﬁxed by a “-” symbol.
Line changes are represented as deleting the original line and
adding back the changed lines.
The original buggy code includes all code deleted by
the patch. However, simply looking for the lines that were
changed (by being deleted) is insufﬁcient: we must also
consider the surrounding context of the patch.
Consider the buggy code and two possible patch scenarios
shown in Figure 1. Patch 1 signiﬁes that strcpy is buggy
by deleting the line of code. The code is replaced with the
safe strncpy version. We can go looking for the deleted
line of code, and ﬂag it as buggy everywhere we see it.
However, patch 2 simply adds a check. Looking for the
missing check is not straightforward since we cannot directly
look for missing lines of code. Our approach is to look for
copies of the surrounding context tokens, c, for each changed
line and report clones of the context.
The overall steps used by ReDeBug to detect buggy code
clones, shown in Figure 2, are:
• Step 1: Pre-process the source. A user obtains all
source ﬁles used in their distribution. For Debian, this is
done using the apt tool. ReDeBug then automatically:
1) Performs normalization and tokenization as de-
scribed in the core system in § II-A.
2) Moves an n-length window over the token stream.
For each window, the resulting n-tokens are
hashed into a Bloom ﬁlter.
3) Stores the Bloom ﬁlter for each source ﬁle in
a raw data format. ReDeBug compresses Bloom
ﬁlters before storing to disk to save space and to
reduce the amount of disk access at query time.
While initially the above steps would be performed over
the entire distribution, day-to-day use would only run
the steps on modiﬁed ﬁles, e.g., as part of a revision
control check-in. In our experiments and implemen-
tation, we also concatenate per-ﬁle Bloom ﬁlters for
a project into a single bitmap before saving to disk.
This is purely an optimization; loading the single large
Bloom ﬁlter is much quicker than loading a bunch of
small Bloom ﬁlters on our machines.
• Step 2: Check for unpatched code copies. A user
obtains a uniﬁed diff software patch. ReDeBug then
automatically:
1) Extracts the original code snippet and the c tokens
of context information from the pre-patch source.
The mechanics for the code snippet are simple:
we extract lines preﬁxed by a “-” symbol in the
patch (lines preﬁxed with a “+” symbol are added
and thus not present in the original buggy code). If
context information is given in the patch, we use
51
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:35:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


===== PAGE 005 =====
diff
svn commit
patch
Extract original
code snippet 
including context
Normalize/
Tokenize
DB
(Bloom filter 
per file)
Sources
Debian, Ubuntu, 
Kernel, ...
Normalize/
Tokenize
Hash n-tokens 
into Bloom filters 
Unpatched 
Code Clone List
Remove 
BF errors/ 
dead code
Build DB
Unpatched
code clones
Find Bugs
Similarity
Feature hashing
n-tokens
DB
(Bitvector per 
file/function)
Pairwise 
Similarity
Measurement
Compute
bitwise similarity
Measure Similarity
Unpatched Code Clone Detection
Code Similarity Detection
(parallelized)
set membership 
test
Figure 2: The ReDeBug workﬂow.
that, else we obtain it from the original source
ﬁles.
2) Normalizes and tokenizes the extracted original
buggy code snippets. The normalization process is
the same as described in Step 1. For C, C++, Java,
and Python we remove any partial comments in
the c context lines since those languages support
multi-line comments and c context lines may have
only the head or tail part of multi-line comments.
3) Hashes the n-token window into a set of hashes
fp.
4) Performs a Bloom ﬁlter set membership test
on each hashed n-token window. We report an
unpatched code clone with ﬁle f if CONTAIN-
MENT(fp, f) ≥θ.
• Step 3: Post-process the reported clones. Given re-
ported unpatched code clones, ReDeBug automatically:
1) Performs an exact-matching test to remove Bloom
ﬁlter errors.
2) Excludes dead code which is not included at
build time. For C we add assert statements
to the buggy code region, and compile with -g
option which allows us to check the presence
of assert statements using objdump -S. For
non-compiled languages this step is omitted.
3) ReDeBug reports only non-dead code to the user.
We use Bloom ﬁlters [8] because they are a space efﬁcient
randomized data structure used for set membership tests.
Suppose there is a data set S, i.e., in our setting a set of
n-tokens. A Bloom ﬁlter represents set S as a vector of m
bits initially all set to 0. To add an element x ∈S to the
Bloom ﬁlter we ﬁrst apply k independent hash functions of
range {1..m}. For each hash h(x) = i, we set the i’th bit
of the bit vector to 1. In a Bloom ﬁlter, to test if an element
of y ∈S, we again apply the k hash functions and check
if all the bits are 1. If at least one of the hashed bits is 0,
then we return y /∈S. If all bits are set to 1, then we return
y ∈S.
Bloom ﬁlters have one-sided error for set membership
tests. A false positive occurs when the set membership test
returns x ∈S when x is not really in S. False positives occur
because of collisions in hash functions. The false positive
rate of the Bloom ﬁlter depends on the size of the bit array
(m), the number of hash functions (k), and the number of
elements in S (N). The probability of a false positive can be
made negligible by an appropriate choice of parameters [9].
Bloom ﬁlters have no false negatives. In our setting, the
one-sided error means we may mistakenly say that an n-
token is present in the set when it is not. The probability of
this happening can be made arbitrarily low with appropriate
parameter selection, e.g., it is 0.3% in our implementation.
In our evaluation, we only report an unpatched code
clone if a ﬁle contains all context and all original n-tokens
as described above, i.e., θ = 1. This is a conservative
conﬁguration.
C. Code Similarity Detection
ReDeBug can also be used to measure the amount of code
clones. In this mode ReDeBug uses the SIMILARITY metric
between code pairs. The main issue when performing simi-
larity measurements is the cost of the pairwise comparisons.
52
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:35:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


===== PAGE 006 =====
A standard approach for comparing all N ﬁles requires that
we compare ﬁle 1 to ﬁle 2 through N, ﬁle 2 to ﬁle 3 through
N, and so on with a total of N(N−1)
2
comparisons.
In order to make pairwise comparisons cheap, we need
to implement the Jaccard SIMILARITY set-wise similarity
comparisons efﬁciently. Most standard libraries implement
the Jaccard index directly as a set operation on set data con-
tainer classes, e.g., as done in SimMetrics [4]. The problem
is that set data structures are L1/L2 cache inefﬁcient.
ReDeBug uses bitvectors in order to speed up pair-wise
comparisons. The idea is that the bitvector operation well-
approximates a true Jaccard based upon the original sets.
However, the Bloom ﬁlters we described above are designed
for set membership, not calculating the Jaccard. Jang et al.
noticed that as the number of hash functions used in a Bloom
ﬁlter grows, so does the error in the approximation [22]. The
solution is to use a single hash function when creating the
bitvectors for SIMILARITY, not multiple hash functions. A
single hash function approach is called feature hashing. Jang
et al. [22] show that feature hashing well approximates the
true Jaccard in both theory and practice (e.g., within 99.99%
of the true value with proper parameter selection); we adopt
their technique in ReDeBug. A side beneﬁt is that a single
hash is faster than multiple hashes used in typical Bloom
ﬁlter operations.
ReDeBug encodes all elements in a bitvector using fea-
ture hashing. ReDeBug then calculates the distance using
SIMILARITYbv instead of Equation 2,
SIMILARITYbv(va, vb) = S(va ∧vb)
S(va ∨vb)
where vi is the bitvector representation of the feature set for
ﬁle i and S(·) counts the number of set bits.
The complete system for computing similarity for OS-
distributions becomes:
1) Obtain all source code. For Debian and Ubuntu, this
is done with apt. For SourceForge, we crawled all
Subversion, CVS and Git directories.
2) For each ﬁle, normalize and tokenize as described in
§ II-A.
3) For each n-length token sequence i, compute h(i) = d
and set the d’th bit in the respective ﬁle bitvector m.
4) Compute SIMILARITYbv between each pair of bitvec-
tors.
The result is a pairwise similarity measurement between
ﬁles. In a development environment we would only return
those with a similarity greater than θ.
Similarity at different granularities: The source ﬁle level
provides a relatively coarse granularity of measurement
between code bases. ReDeBug can extract functions from
ﬁles, and compute similarity based upon functions using
the same algorithm. ReDeBug can also calculate the total
fraction of unique n-tokens. The total fraction of n-tokens
suggests the number of unique code fragments found. In our
evaluation, we measure both for our data sets (§ III-H).
D. Similarity vs. Bug Finding
The algorithm for ﬁnding bugs is similar to that for
similarity detection, with a few exceptions. First, we pre-
process the source to build a database. Patches are queried
against the database while every pair of ﬁles is compared
when computing similarity. The advantage of this is that the
time to build a database and to query bugs increases only
linearly as we have more ﬁles and patches. The time for
similarity detection quadratically goes up with more ﬁles
due to N 2 comparisons.
The second difference is that we use Bloom ﬁlters for un-
patched code clone detection, while we used feature hashing
for similarity detection. We originally wanted a system that
used a single algorithm. While conceptually more elegant,
such a design wasn’t optimal in either scenario. For example,
if we had based our similarity metric on Bloom ﬁlters with
multiple hash functions, we would have a larger error rate
than with feature hashing due to extra collisions from the
extra hash functions. If we had used feature hashing instead
of Bloom ﬁlters, we would again have lower accuracy when
performing set membership tests. While this may seem like a
subtle difference, previous theoretical and empirical analysis
also back up the difference between feature hashing and
Bloom ﬁlters [22, 29].
Luckily, the internals of implementing both feature hash-
ing and Bloom ﬁlters is almost identical. In one case we use
a single hash function and have a distance metric interface,
and in the other we use multiple hash functions and export
a set membership interface.
