# V. RELATED WORK

MOSS [28] is a well-known similarity detection tool
using n-tokens. MOSS is based upon an algorithm called
winnowing [28], a fuzzy hashing technique that selects a
subset of n-tokens to ﬁnd similar code. The main difference
is that ReDeBug uses feature hashing to encode n-tokens
in a bitvector, which allows ReDeBug to perform similarity
comparison in a cache-efﬁcient way. We swap out winnow-
ing for feature hashing for improved speed. This decision
was based upon the work by Jang et al. [22]. Furthermore,
in order to ﬁnd unpatched code clones we use the insight
of only looking for code clones of patched bugs to scale to
large OS distributions.
Most recent work in academia has focused on detecting
all code clones (i.e., reducing the number of missed code
clones, but having more false detections of clones). Exam-
ples include Deckard [23], CCFinder [24], CP-Miner [25]
and Deja Vu [21]. Detecting all code clones is a harder
problem than just searching for copies of patched code in
that the former potentially requires comparison of all code
pairs, while the latter is a single sweep over the data set.
This line of research uses a variety of matching heuristics
based upon high-level code representations such as CFGs
and parse trees. For example, CCFinder uses lexing and
then performs transformations based upon rules to determine
whether code is similar [24]. The transformation rules are
60
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:35:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


===== PAGE 014 =====
language-dependent. Deckard [23] and Deja Vu [21] build
parse trees for C code, and then reduce part of the parse trees
to a vector. Comparisons are done on the vector. CP-Miner
also parses the program: currently the parser is implemented
only for C and C++. It then hashes these tokens and assigns
a numeric value to each, and runs the CloSpan frequent
subsequence mining algorithm to detect code clones.
Each of the above techniques represent a unique and
different point in the design space. For example, building the
parse tree, CFG, etc. all require implementing a robust parser
for the language. Implementing good parsers is a difﬁcult
problem with which even professional software assurance
companies struggle [7], but once done will give them a
robust level of abstraction not available to ReDeBug. The
highest false positive rate for reported errors among the code
clones was 90% for CP-Miner, and 66-74% for Deja Vu. In
terms of scalability, the largest code base we are aware of is
Deja Vu, which looked at a proprietary code base consisting
of about 75 million lines of C code. They used a cluster
of 5 machines, and integrated the product into the build
cycle. It found 2070-2760 likely bugs. Our experiments are
on code bases upon to billions of lines of code (two orders
of magnitude larger). If their techniques could be scaled
up, they would likely ﬁnd more unpatched code clones, but
the number of falsely detected clones would also scale up
and the overall system would require more resources than
available to a typical end-developer.
SYDIT [26] is a program transformation tool, which
characterizes edits as AST node modiﬁcations and generates
context-aware edit scripts from example edits. It was tested
on an oracle data set of 56 pairs of example edits from
open source projects in Java. SYDIT complements ReDeBug
in that SYDIT looks at abstract, semantic changes while
ReDeBug focuses on syntactic changes at large scale.
Pattern Insight’s Code Assurance [1] (aka Patch Miner)
is advertised as ﬁnding unpatched code clones, as with
ReDeBug. Their whitepaper does not contain any technical
information to compare on a usage, algorithmic, perfor-
mance, or accuracy basis, but does mention it performs a
kind of “fuzzy matching”. We have contacted Pattern Insight
to get more details, but they have not made the product
available to us for comparison.
Previous work has also done clustering. Much previous
work, like us, uses the Jaccard distance metric, e.g., Deja Vu.
Deckard and Deja Vu use locality sensitive hashing (LSH)
to speed up the pairwise comparison using Jaccard. We use
feature hashing. Theoretical analysis shows feature hashing
outperforms LSH alone [29], and Jang et al. back this up
with an empirical evaluation for malware clustering [22].
However, a hybrid approach that ﬁrst uses LSH to ﬁnd near-
duplicates which are then compared using feature hashing
may be possible. We leave these types of optimizations as
future work.
Brumley et al. have shown once a patch becomes avail-
able, an attacker may be able to use it to reverse engineer the
problem and create an exploit automatically [10]. We leave
exploring the ramiﬁcation of this problem as future work.
