II. M OTIVATION
In this section, we present a motivation example to illustrate
the need for an alternative approach.
Fig. 1 illustrates our motivation example, showing a bug-
fixing commit in the Linux kernel [22]. Due to space con-
straints, only the most significant part of the patch is displayed.
The commit message clearly indicates the reason behind the
evolution of the bug. Specifically, the previous version of the
program fails to clear the pending bit of the variable flags be-
fore passing it to the functionatomic_cmpxchg. The developer
addresses this issue by introducing a clear-bit operation through
an add-and-assign operation at line 15.
The previous approach, the A-SZZ algorithm [21], identifies
the block that encompasses the added lines. In this example, it
covers lines ranging from line 11 to 17. While it successfully
identifies the bug-inducing commit, it also introduces signifi-
cant noise. For instance, we can easily observe that the variable
definition statement at line 11 is unrelated to the bug. The
problem worsens when the block contains numerous lines. Most
of these lines are unrelated to the bug.
From the motivation example, we can make the following
observations:
Observation 1. Most of the bug-inducing commits can be
found by tracing back the unmodified lines near the added
lines. For instance, in this example, the bug-inducing commit
can be located by tracing back to line 13, which is only two
lines away from the added lines. Therefore, there is no need
to trace back the entire block. In fact, subsequent experiments
reveal that by tracing back only the two nearest unmodified
lines adjacent to the added lines, we can identify 85% of bug-
inducing commits with a much higher precision than the A-SZZ
algorithm.
Observation 2. To improve precision, we need to perform
a more fine-grained analysis. Although tracing back the
unmodified lines near the added lines is effective in locating
bug-inducing commits, it still su ffers from low precision. For
example, line 14 is unrelated to the variableflags and therefore
unrelated to the bug. A more fine-grained analysis can resolve
this issue. By conducting a data flow analysis on two versions
of the program, one for the buggy version and one for the fixed
version, we can observe that the sole difference lies in the data
flow of the flags variable. In the previous version, the data flow
of flags extends from line 12 to line 16. In the current version,
it flows from lines 12, and 15 to 16, with a new add-and-assign
operation at line 15. Thus, we can exclude the irrelevant line 14.
Observation 3. The bug arises from the combined impact
of multiple statements, each of which is indispensable for
its occurrence. From the commit message, it is obvious that the
bug requires two specific conditi ons. First, the variable flags
must be assigned without clearing the pending bit (lines 12-
13). Secondly, the variable flag must be passed to the function
atomic_cmpxchg (lines 16-17). It’s the interaction between
these statements that triggers the bug. Thus, when pinpointing
bug-inducing commits, it’s essential to ensure that both state-
ments are present within the identified commit, rather than just
one of them.
