III. A
PPROACH
Building on the motivation example, our proposed method
aims to effectively identify all statements contributing to the
appearance of the bug. The architecture of S
EM-SZZ is shown
in Fig. 2.
Observation 1 leads our approach to focusing on program
segments near the added lines. Thus, we begin by performing
program slicing [23], [24] to extract relevant program parts
close to the additions. Based on Observation 2, after slicing the
program, we delve into a more detailed analysis. This involves
comparing the states of both versions of the program, one with
the added lines and one without. Through thorough comparison
and analysis, we identify specific statements associated with
the added lines, pinpointing them as the triggers for the bug.
Drawing on Observation 3, we proceed to locate bug-inducing
commits by finding the earliest commit that contains all buggy
statements.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:26:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 004 =====

3040 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SOFTW ARE ENGINEERING, VOL. 50, NO. 11, NOVEMBER 2024
Fig. 2. Overview of S EM-SZZ.
Fig. 3. An example of program slice.
A. Program Slicing
In this section, we present the program slicing process. The
goal of this process is to pick out specific parts of the program
that are relevant to the bug.
Firstly, we extract the function from the fixed version con-
taining the added lines. Then, we adapt the approach similar
to the previous research [25] for an intraprocedural program
slicing. During the program slicing process, we initially identify
the point of interest, which in this case is the basic block
containing added lines. Subsequently, we conduct both forward
and backward program slicing centered around this point. In this
way, we can avoid the noise introduced by the irrelevant lines.
In detail, we initially construct the control flow graph [26]
for the function, splitting the function into a set of basic blocks.
Then we pick out the basic block containing the added line as
the point of interest. Finally, we use the depth-first-search algo-
rithm to search itsN nearest predecessors and successors. Here,
the parameter N is the maximum search step, indicating the
search scope of our program. When the search step reaches N,
we save all the basic blocks encountered during the searching
process and exclude all other parts of the program.
Here, our slice criterion is based on basic blocks with added
code statements instead of variables. We do this for two reasons.
Firstly, there may be many changed statements in a function,
resulting in many changed variables. Handling them one by one
is time-consuming. By dealing with changed basic blocks, we
can address many code statements and variables once at a time.
Secondly, slicing based on variables may introduce lines far
from the added lines, which can introduce noise. Instead, by
slicing only the basic blocks near the changed basic blocks, we
can avoid this issue.
Fig. 3 illustrates an example of program slicing, based on the
function depicted in the motivation example. As depicted in the
figure, the original function is divided into six basic blocks, with
line ranges also indicated. The added line number is 15. Thus,
the basic block d contains the added line and we designate it
as the interesting point. Here we set N to 3. We begin to search
its three nearest predecessors (in this case, blocks c, a and
begin). Subsequently, we explore its three nearest successors.
Note that each block is visited only once throughout the process.
Thus, we identify the end block as the only successor. As a
result, our slicing result contains basic blocks begin, a, c, d,
and end.
B. State Collection
Having isolated the part of the program relevant to the bug,
our next step is to collect the states of the program within
this portion. We borrow the concept program’s state from sym-
bolic execution [27], [28]. In symbolic execution, the execution
engine maintains the program’s states (σ,π) for each execu-
tion path, where σ represents a table that maps each variable
to its corresponding symbolic value α
i, and pi denotes the
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:26:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 005 =====

TANG et al.: ENHANCING BUG-INDUCING COMMIT IDENTIFICATI ON: A FINE-GRAINED SEMANTIC ANALYSIS APPROACH 3041
Fig. 4. Candidate selection.
Algorithm 1: obtaining the program’s state after exe-
cuting the path.
Input : path, the input path
Output: state, the program’s state for the execution
path.
1 for statement in path do
2 if statement.type in {while, if, switch, for} then
3 state.constraints.add(statement)
4 if statement.type in {expression} then
5 variables ←−extractVars(statement)
6 for variable in variables do
7 state.variable.dataflow.append(statement)
8 return state
path constraints, signifying all branch conditions taken to reach
each statement in the path. Given that our goal is to discern
the differences between the states of the two versions of the
program—the bug-fixed version and the buggy version, there
is no imperative need for the symbolic value of each variable.
Instead, we collect each variable’s data flow for simplicity.
As shown above, in order to collect the program’s state,
we first construct its execution paths. We start from the ba-
sic blocks without predecessors and then traverse recursively
through all their successors. When we reach basic blocks with
no successors, we mark all statements encountered in sequential
order as an execution path. For example, in the sliced program
illustrated in Fig.3, we start from thebeginblock and traverse
its successors, including blocks a, c, d, until we arrive at the
endblock, which has no further successors. During the process,
we add each statement encountered to the execution path.
Following path extraction, we proceed to generate the pro-
gram’s state for the execution path. Algorithm 1 outlines the
process. We iterate through the statements in the execution path.
If the statement type belongs to path constraints (line 2), we
include the statement in the path constraints. Otherwise, we
extract the variables from the statement and incorporate them
into the data flow of these variables (lines 4-7).
Fig. 5. A program state example.
Fig. 5 illustrates the program’s state for the previously col-
lected execution path in the motivation example. Upon encoun-
tering the statement at line 3, we extract the variablesworkand
tmp from the statement. Consequently, we add line number 3
to their data flow, as depicted in the figure. Additionally, upon
reaching line 6, we easily identify it as an if statement related
to path constraint. Since our path executes from block c to d,
and it does not satisfy the condition, we negate the condition
and store it in the path constraint, as shown in Fig. 5.
C. State Comparison
After collecting the states, our subsequent step involves com-
paring the states of the execution paths from the current version
with those from the previous version. This comparison enables
us to identify discrepancies in their states, ultimately helping us
determine the unmodified statements contributing to the bug.
For each execution path in the current version, our objective
is to discover how the added lines affect the path, making its
state different from the previous version. To enable the com-
parison, the first step involves identifying the corresponding
execution path in the previous version and obtaining its state.
Our goal is to find an execution path in the previous version
that most closely resembles the one in the current version. Thus,
we can capture the differences in their states more precisely.
To get such a corresponding path, we begin by mapping the
first and last basic blocks in the current execution path to their
counterparts in the previous version of the program. Subse-
quently, we traverse from the first block in the previous version,
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:26:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 006 =====

3042 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SOFTW ARE ENGINEERING, VOL. 50, NO. 11, NOVEMBER 2024
Fig. 6. Constraint comparison example.
endeavoring to find a path to the last block. It is important
to note that we may encounter mu ltiple candidates during this
step. For each candidate in the pr evious version, we initially
prioritize the one that shares th e highest number of constraints
with the current execution path.If there are multiple candidates,
preference is given to the one with the most common lines.
To illustrate this, we use the extracted execution path p from
the motivation example. To derive its corresponding path in the
previous version, we initially map its first and last basic blocks
to their counterparts in the previous version. These correspond
to the begin’ block and the end’ block, respectively, as
illustrated in orange in Fig. 4.
Next, we attempt to find out paths from the first mapped
block to the last mapped block in the previous version. In
this case, we aim to find paths from the begin’ block to
the end’ block in the previous version of the program. We
use the depth-first-search algorithm to find out candidates. As
depicted in the figure, we encounter two candidates: p
′
1 and p′
2.
After comparing their constraints, we observe that candidatep′
1
shares more constraints with p, leading us to designate it as the
corresponding path.
After path matching, each pathpwith the statesin the current
version has been paired with a corresponding path p′ with the
state s′from the previous version. Now, we initially compare the
two states and proceed to find out which unmodified statements
in the previous version contribute to the occurrence of the bug.
The detailed algorithm is outlined in Algorithm 2. Initially,
we compare the constraints in two program states. If the con-
straints in the previous path are not identical to those in the
current path, we first identify the index i where the con-
straint preCons[i] in the previous version is different from
the constraint curCons[i] in the current version(lines 1-3).
In case of a conflict condition, we assume that the previous
version of the program may neglect the condition curCons[i]
from the statement S
i to the statement Si+1, where Si is the
last statement before curCons[i] and Si+1 is the first state-
ment after curCons[i]. Consequently, we utilize the function
extractStmts to extract Si and Si+1, subsequently mapping
them to the previous version and adding them to the buggy
statements (lines 4-5).
We provide a constraint comparison example in Fig.6.I nt h e
previous version, the path executes from S
i to Si+1 without a
condition check while in the current version, it needs to sat-
isfy Cnew. The newly added constraint is highlighted in green
while the original constraints are highlighted in red. Here the
constraints in the previous version are C
1, C2, and C3.T h e
Algorithm 2: obtain the buggy statements.
Input : s, state of the current path.
s′, state of the previous path.
Output: bStmts, the obtained buggy statements.
i←−0
preCons ←−s′.constraints
curCons ←−s.constraints
1 for i<curCons.size () and i<preCons.size () do
2 if curCons[i]̸=preCons[i] then
3 break
i←−i+1
4 if i̸=curCons.size() then
5 bStmts.add(extractStmts(curCons [i],s))
6 for var in s′.vars do
i←−0
7 preData ←−s′.var.data
8 curData ←−s.var.data
9 for i<curData.size () and i<preData.size ()
do
10 if curData[i]̸=preData[i] then
11 break
i←−i+1
12 if i̸=curData.size() then
13 bStmts.add(preData [i-1],preData [i])
current version of the program has constraints C1, C2, Cnew
and C3. We compare all constraints in sequential order and find
that C3 is conflicted with Cnew at index 2. Thus, we extract the
last statement Si before Cnew and the first statement Si+1 after
Cnew. We map these two statements to the previous version and
add them to buggy statements.
For each variable in the previous path, we compare its data
flow with that in the current path (lines 10-11). Again, we first
locate the conflict index. Then, we add the conflicting index
and its preceding index’s corresponding statements to the buggy
statements (lines 12-13). Note that a variable’s data flow is the
sequence of code statements that define, assign, modify, or use
the variable in the path. Additionally, when we compare the data
flow of a variable, we do not consider the control flow.
In the case of the motivation example, we first examine
the constraints and identify no differences. Subsequently, we
analyze the data flow of each variable. Upon inspection, we
observe that the data flow of the variable flagsin the previous
version encompasses two statements 11-12, 16-17, while in the
current version, it comprises three statements 11-12, 15, 16-17.
Consequently, a conflict ar ises at index 1, as we illustrate in
green in Fig. 5. As a result, we include the statements 11-12,
16-17 as the statements contributing to the bug.
D. Locating Bug-Inducing Commits
After identifying all buggy statements, the subsequent step
involves tracing back the commit history to pinpoint the bug-
inducing commit. We adopt an approach similar to the “per-
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:26:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 007 =====

TANG et al.: ENHANCING BUG-INDUCING COMMIT IDENTIFICATI ON: A FINE-GRAINED SEMANTIC ANALYSIS APPROACH 3043
Fig. 7. Locating bug-inducing commits.
fect test” model proposed by Rodríguez-Pérez et al. [29].T h e
model consists of two parts. The first part involves determining
whether a commit is buggy. They assume there exists a “per-
fect test” to accomplish this. If a commit can pass the test,
it is considered correct; otherwise, it is deemed buggy. The
second part involves locating the bug-inducing commit. They
trace back from the bug-fixing commit until encountering the
earliest commit that fails the “perfect test,” marking it as the
bug-inducing commit. However, in practice, there is always no
applicable “perfect test” available. Therefore, they replace it
with manually designed tests based on bug reports.
Based on the model mentioned above, our method to locate
the bug-inducing commits also consists of two parts. To deter-
mine whether a commit is buggy, we replace the “perfect test”
with the buggy statements collected above. As we mentioned
above, each buggy statement is indispensable to the occurrence
of the bug. Thus, we consider the commit as buggy only when it
contains all buggy statements or it contains statements with the
same semantic meaning as all buggy statements. To determine
whether two statements have the same semantic meaning, we
leverage the methodology proposed by V-SZZ [17].I ft w o
statements have a line similarity beyond a threshold, we believe
that they have the same semantic meaning. Here, we also use the
same method to compute line similarity and set the similarity
t h r e s h o l dt o0 . 7 5a sV - S Z Z .
Suppose that we have two strings S
1 and S2. We first cal-
culate the sum of the length of S1 and S2 as in formula 1.
Then we calculate the line similarity shown in formula2, where
the levenshteinDistance function is used to calculate the
Levenshtein edit distance[30] of the two strings. Line similarity
ranges from 0 to 1. Higher values indicate a greater likelihood
that two code statements share the same semantic meaning.
L=len(S
1)+ len(S2) (1)
S =(L−levenshteinDistance(S1,S2))/L (2)
To locate the bug-inducing commits, we trace back all buggy
statements, generating a set of candidate commits. Subse-
quently, we scrutinize these candidates to identify the earliest
buggy commit and designate it as the bug-inducing commit,
which is the same as the model above.
Fig. 7 illustrates the process o f locating bug-inducing
commits. After obtaining statements contributing to the bug,
we first use the git blame tool on the statements and
obtain two candidates: commit 153bedbac2e and commit
feb4a51323b. Then we begin to check which commit
first introduces all buggy statements. We first check the
earliest commit 153bedbac2e and find that no statement
has a line similarity over 0.75 with the statement flags
= atomic_fetch_andnot(IRQ_WORK_PENDING, &
work-> flags). The most closely related statement is line
3, but its similarity is still under 0.75. Thus, 153bedbac2e
is not the bug-inducing commit. Then, we check commit
feb4a51323b and find that it contains all statements in
the buggy statements. Thus, we designate it as the final
bug-inducing commit, which is the same as the developers’
message in Fig. 1.
E. Extending S
EM-SZZ to Bug-Fixing Commits With
Deleted Lines
While our method is primarily designed for bug-fixing com-
mits with only added lines, the approach of comparing program
states and identifying buggy statements can also be applied to
commits with deleted lines. However, some adjustments are
necessary for this scenario, particularly with respect to deleted
lines.
First, during program slicing, we mark the basic block con-
taining deleted lines as the point of interest and search its nearest
N predecessors and successors. Second, when comparing pro-
gram states, we focus more on deleted lines. Specifically, if we
find differences in path constraints between the previous and
current versions, we identify the deleted lines related to those
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:26:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 008 =====

3044 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SOFTW ARE ENGINEERING, VOL. 50, NO. 11, NOVEMBER 2024
Fig. 8. An example of handling bug- fixing commits w ith deleted lines.
constraints and mark them as buggy statements. Similarly, when
comparing the data flow of each variable, if there’s a difference
between versions, we identify and mark the related deleted lines
as buggy statements.
Fig. 8 illustrates why comparing paths is necessary. If we
blamed all deleted lines, lines 3 and 17 would be included.
However, line 3 is simply replaced by line 4 and does not affect
the program’s state. By comparing paths, we can see that the
data flow of variables buffer and count is not affected,
allowing us to exclude line 3 and reduce noise.
IV . E
XPERIMENT SETUP
