A. Experiment Setting
The experiment was conducted on a server equipped with
an Intel(R) Xeon(R) Gold 6226R CPU, running the Ubuntu
operating system. We utilized gitpython to extract source
files from both the previous and current versions of the program.
The control flow graph was constructed based on the AST
generated by the tr ee-sitter parser [31]. Following the V-SZZ
algorithm, we set the line similarity threshold as 0.75. Notably,
we set the maximum search step parameter N to three. Further
details on the impact of various maximum search steps will be
discussed in the subsequent section. Moreover, we implement
all baselines based on tools provided by Lenarduzzi et al. [32].
B. Data Preparation
To evaluate our method, we r equire a high-qua lity dataset.
While several researchers [33], [34] have introduced datasets
containing bug-inducing and bug-fixing commits, a common
challenge is the lack of annotations by project developers, po-
tentially leading to inaccuracies. Recently, some datasets [35],
Fig. 9. Datasets relationship.
Fig. 10. A bug-fixing commit involving no changes within functions.
[36] with developers’ annotations have been proposed, but all
of them have very limited examples of bug-fixing commits
with no deleted lines. For example, after filtering, the dataset
proposed by Rosa et al. [35] contains only about 20 bug-fixing
commits only with added lines. Considering these factors, we
opted to utilize the datas et proposed by Lyu et al. [20], which
is constructed based on the Linux kernel and contains 79,649
bug-fixing commits. There are several reasons for this choice.
Firstly, it is annotated by developers, ensuring its accuracy.
The developers leave the link to the bug-inducing commit in
the commit message of the bug-fixing commit. Secondly, it
contains a significant number of bug-fixing commits without
any deletion lines. To eval uate our method, we partition the
original dataset into multiple datasets, as illustrated in Fig. 9.
We initially pick out bug-fixing commits containing c files
with only added lines from the original dataset, yielding
11,426 commits, which we call DATASET
-A. Here, the suffix
“A” means added lines. To better demonstrate the effective-
ness of S EM-SZZ, we filter out two types of commits from
DATASET-A. The first type of commits does not involve
changes within functions. These commits often only involve
changes to header file includes, str uct definitions, or global
variable declarations. We have provided an example in Fig.10.
The commit fixes the bug only by adding a new header file.
The second type involves changes within functions, but even
by tracing all lines in th e changed functions, we still cannot
identify the bug-inducing commits. Our approach is not de-
signed for the first type, and no approaches, including base-
lines, can handle the second type. Thus, we filter out these two
types of commits from DATASET
-A and get DATASET -FA,
which contains 6,233 bug-fixing commits. Here, the suffix “FA”
stands for the filtered bug-fixing commits with only added lines.
Finally, to evaluate our method’s effectiveness in identifying
bug-inducing commits from bug-fixing commits with deleted
lines, we extract bug-fixing commits containing c files with
deleted lines and changes in functi ons, resulting in 48,736 test
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:26:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 009 =====

TANG et al.: ENHANCING BUG-INDUCING COMMIT IDENTIFICATI ON: A FINE-GRAINED SEMANTIC ANALYSIS APPROACH 3045
TABLE I
THE ST A T I S T I C SO FT H EBUGS AND CORRESPONDING BUG-FIXING
COMMITS IN THREE DATASETS
DATASET #Bug-Fixing #Bug-Inducing #SMALL #LARGE
DATASET-A
DATASET-FA
DATASET-D
6,233
11,426
48,736
6,419
11,829
50,978
7,959
4,394
16,615
3,467
1,839
25,975
cases, forming the DATASET -D. Here, the suffix “D” means
the deleted lines. Note that as long as a bug-fixing commit
contains deleted lines, it can be included in DATASET-D. Thus,
DATASET-D includes bug-fixing commits with only deleted
lines and bug-fixing commits with both added and deleted lines.
Table I presents the statistics of our three datasets. We cat-
egorize the bug-fixing commits following previous research
[17], [18]. Notice that if a bug-fixing commit contains fewer
than five changed lines, we categorize it as a small bug-fixing
commit; otherwise, we categorize it as large. From the table, we
can see that all three datasets contain multiple large bug-fixing
commits. This is helpful when we want to demonstrate that
our approach can scale to large bug-fixing commits. Moreover,
we can also see that one bug-fixing commit may correspond to
multiple bug-inducing commits.
C. Baselines
Few previous research studies have proposed methods to
identify bug-inducing commits that involve only added lines.
To enhance the evaluation of our approach, we introduce a
new set of baselines of our own, complementing the existing
approaches. All the following baselines have the prefix “A”.
Here, the “A” stands for “added lines,” indicating that these
baselines are designed to handle bug-fixing commits with only
added lines.
• A-SZZ. A-SZZ, proposed by Sahal et al. [21], is an ap-
proach that initially identifies the added lines, then locates
the block encapsulating the new code change, and finally
utilizes the git blame tool to trace back the historical
changes of the code block.
• AB-SZZ. Building on the concept of B-SZZ [6],w ei n t r o -
duce an additional baseline named AB-SZZ. Similar to the
B-SZZ algorithm, which utilizes the git blame tool on each
deletion line, our variant also aims to find lines for each
added line to trace back. In contrast to the relatively coarse
scope of A-SZZ, which covers the whole code block, our
approach only selects the two nearest unmodified lines
above and below each added line. In this way, we can
guarantee that each added line has unmodified lines to
trace back.
Our study also adopts the concept of B-SZZ variants, such as
AG-SZZ, MA-SZZ, R-SZZ and L-SZZ to introduce baselines,
which is the same as three previous studies [17], [20], [37] .
Note that we exclude the RA-SZZ algorithm [9], because there
are no existing tools to identify refactors in the C programming
language.
• AAG-SZZ. The original AG-SZZ algorithm, proposed by
Kim et al. [7], enhances the B-SZZ algorithm by filtering
out non-semantic lines, such as blank lines, comment lines,
and format modifications. Additionally, they leverage the
annotation graph to gather more information than the an-
notatecommand. Given that the git blame tool already
leverages the annotation graph, the AAG-SZZ algorithm
only needs to filter out non-semantic lines identified in the
AB-SZZ algorithm.
• AMA-SZZ. The original MA-SZZ algorithm is proposed
by Da Costa et al. [8]. They notice that the existence
of meta-changes introduces noise in the identified bug-
inducing commits. Meta-changes refer to changes that do
not alter the semantics of code, such as branch changes,
merge changes, and property file changes. To implement
AMA-SZZ, we need to filter out meta-changes based on
the AAG-SZZ algorithm.
• AR-SZZ and AL-SZZ. The original R-SZZ and
L-SZZ algorithms were proposed by Davies et al. [33].
The R-SZZ algorithm selects the most recent commit from
the AG-SZZ algorithm results, while the L-SZZ selects the
commit that changed the most lines. In the AR-SZZ and
AL-SZZ algorithms, we adopt the same selection strategy
as the R-SZZ and L-SZZ algorithms to select the final com-
mit from the results produced by the AAG-SZZ algorithm.
To evaluate our approach in scenarios where the bug-fixing
commit contains deleted lines, we adopt the approaches B-SZZ,
AG-SZZ, MA-SZZ, L-SZZ and R-SZZ as in previous studies
[17], [20]
, [37].
D. Metrics
Following previous research practices [17], [18], [20],w e
adopt three widely used metrics (i.e., Precision, Recall, and
F1-score) to assess the performance of our approach and other
baselines.
Precision Precision gauges the accuracy of positive predic-
tions made by the SZZ algorithm. In this context, we define I
T
as the SZZ algorithm’s correctly identified true bug-inducing
commits and IF as the falsely identified bug-inducing commits.
Therefore, precision can be calculated as follows:
P = IT
IT +IF
(3)
Recall is a measure of the SZZ algorithm’s ability of cap-
turing true bug-inducing commits among all bug-inducing
commits. Here IT is defined as the SZZ algorithm’s correctly
identified true bug-inducing commits and M is the number of
all bug-inducing commits. Thus, recall can be calculated as
follows:
R= IT
M (4)
F1-score is the harmonic mean of precision and recall. It
provides a balance between these two metrics, taking both false
positives and false negatives into account. After obtainingP as
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:26:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 010 =====

3046 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SOFTW ARE ENGINEERING, VOL. 50, NO. 11, NOVEMBER 2024
TABLE II
THE PERFORMANCE COMPARISONS BETWEEN
ALL METHODS FOR FINDING ALL
BUG-INDUCING COMMITS
Approach Precision Recall F1-score
A-SZZ
AB-SZZ
AAG-SZZ
AMA-SZZ
AR-SZZ
AL-SZZ
0.07
0.26
0.28
0.28
0.39
0.37
0.64
0.56
0.52
0.52
0.38
0.36
0.13
0.36
0.36
0.36
0.37
0.36
SEM-SZZ * 0.45 0.43 0.44
the precision and Ras the recall, the F1-score can be calculated
as follows:
F1= 2PR
P +R (5)
