V. EXPERIMENT
This section presents the experiment results of our research
questions.
A. Effectiveness of Our Met hod in Identifying Bug-Inducing
Commits From Bug-Fixing Commits With Only Added Lines
In this research question, we focus on two experimental
settings: all bug-inducing commits and filtered bug-inducing
commits. In the first setting, we concentrate on locating bug-
inducing commits in DATASET-A. In the second setting, we
focus on locating bug-inducing commits in DATASET-FA.
In DATASET-A, there are 2,411 commits that involve no
changes within functions, accounting for 21% of the total test
cases. Thus, when handling test cases in DATASET-A, we first
check whether the current commit contains added lines in func-
tions. If it does, we use S
EM-SZZ to produce the result. If it does
not, we use the AR-SZZ algorithm. This approach gives us the
experimental results shown in the row S
EM-SZZ * in Table II.
Table II presents the results of our approach and baselines
for identifying all bug-inducing commits. Notably, the precision
of some baselines, especially the A-SZZ algorithm, is relatively
low, with a precision of less than 0.1. The best baseline AR-SZZ
has a precision equal to 0.39, which is still lower than S
EM-SZZ
*. Thus, our approach improves precision by 22% compared to
the best baseline AR-SZZ.
As shown in Table II, A-SZZ performs the worst in F1-score
due to a high number of false positives. Our proposed baselines
outperform A-SZZ significantly. The best baselines AAG-SZZ
and AMA-SZZ outperform A-SZZ by 200% in F1-score. This
indicates the effectiveness of tracing back the neighboring un-
modified lines of added lines. Furthermore, we observe that the
AB-SZZ algorithm and its variants perform almost the same,
resembling findings from prior research [20] where B-SZZ,
AG-SZZ, MA-SZZ, L-SZZ and R-SZZ demonstrated similar
performance. Notably, the idea of filtering out meta-changes
appears to have no effect in this context. In TableII,S
EM-SZZ *
TABLE III
THE PERFORMANCE COMPARISONS BETWEEN
ALL METHODS FOR FINDING FILTERED
BUG-INDUCING COMMITS
Approach Precision Recall F1-score
A-SZZ
AB-SZZ
AAG-SZZ
AMA-SZZ
AR-SZZ
AL-SZZ
0.11
0.42
0.44
0.44
0.58
0.57
0.96
0.84
0.79
0.79
0.56
0.55
0.20
0.56
0.57
0.57
0.57
0.56
SEM-SZZ 0.68 0.66 0.67
also demonstrates the best balance between precision and recall,
improving F1-score by 19% compared to the best baseline
AR-SZZ.
We then re-run all methods on DATASET-FA, and the results
are documented in TableIII. TableIII demonstrates a significant
improvement in the performance of all methods. However, some
baselines continue to struggle with low precision. Notably, the
precision of the A-SZZ algorithm is still quite low, with only a
slight improvement from 0.07 to 0.11. After filtering out certain
commits, the precisions of the AB-SZZ, AAG-SZZ and MA-
SZZ algorithms remain below 0.50, despite an improvement of
around 0.16. From the table, it’s evident that S
EM-SZZ contin-
ues to outperform all baselines in precision, outperforming the
best baseline AR-SZZ by 17%.
From Table III, we can also see that the unmodified lines,
which can be traced back to find bug-inducing commits, mostly
lie near the added lines. This is evident from the recall of the
baselines, where they find most of the bug-inducing commits
successfully. This corresponds to the introduction and the mo-
tivation example, where we claim that most of the bug-inducing
commits can be found by tracing back the unmodified lines near
the added lines.
Compared to all baselines, S
EM-SZZ also achieves the best
balance between precision and recall. This is evident in the
F1-score, where S EM-SZZ achieves an F1-score of 0.67. It
outperforms the best baselines by 18%, respectively. Therefore,
we believe that S
EM-SZZ is more effective in identifying bug-
inducing commits which can be found by tracing back all lines
within the function.
RQ-1: SEM-SZZ is more precise in identifying bug-
inducing commits compared to all baselines, increasing
precision by 22%. Furthermore, SEM-SZZ achieves a no-
table improvement of 19% in F1-score compared to the best
baseline.
B. Effectiveness of Our Met hod in Identifying Bug-Inducing
Commits From Bug-Fixing Commits With Deleted Lines
Table IV presents the results of S
EM-SZZ and baselines on
identifying bug-inducing commits from bug-fixing commits in
DATASET-D. The results indicate that all baselines perform
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:26:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 011 =====

TANG et al.: ENHANCING BUG-INDUCING COMMIT IDENTIFICATI ON: A FINE-GRAINED SEMANTIC ANALYSIS APPROACH 3047
TABLE IV
THE PERFORMANCE COMPARISONS FOR FINDING
BUG-INDUCING COMMITS FROM BUG-FIXING
COMMITS WITH DELETED LINES
Approach Precision Recall F1-score
B-SZZ
AG-SZZ
MA-SZZ
R-SZZ
L-SZZ
0.42
0.48
0.48
0.58
0.56
0.71
0.65
0.65
0.55
0.52
0.53
0.55
0.55
0.56
0.54
SEM-SZZ 0.62 0.59 0.60
TABLE V
THE PERFORMANCE COMPARISONS IN
ABLATION STUDY
Similarity Precisio n Recall F1-score
SEM-SZZ-c
SEM-SZZ-d
SEM-SZZ-l
0.69
0.67
0.65
0.31
0.36
0.64
0.47
0.42
0.64
SEM-SZZ 0.68 0.66 0.67
similarly. The AG-SZZ, MA-SZZ, R-SZZ and L-SZZ algo-
rithms improve the precision compared to B-SZZ, but their F1-
scores are almost the same. Notably, the recall of B-SZZ is
relatively high. This implies that if there are deleted lines, it is
very likely that we can find the bug-inducing commits by tracing
back the deleted lines. This explains why we need to modify the
approach when dealing with bug-fixing commits with deleted
lines and why we need to pay more attention to deleted lines
when they exist.
Additionally, from the table, we can observe that S
EM-SZZ
also outperforms all baselines. It improves the precision by
7%, compared to the best baseline R-SZZ. Our method also
demonstrates a notable improvement in F1-score, surpassing the
best baseline by 7%.
RQ-3: SEM-SZZ outperforms all baselines in identifying
bug-inducing commits from bug-fixing commits with deleted
lines. It enhances precision by 7% and F1-score by 7%
compared to the best baseline.
C. Effectiveness of Key Designs in S
EM-SZZ
In this research question, we aim to evaluate the effectiveness
of the key components in our approach. SEM-SZZ incorporates
two primary designs for identifying buggy statements and one
for pinpointing bug-inducing commits.
The first design involves comparing path constraints between
the previous and current versions of the program. Here, the
previous version refers to the first commit preceding the bug-
fixing commit, while the current version refers to the bug-fixing
commit itself. The second design involves comparing the data
flow of each variable in both versions. In the third design, we
utilize line similarity comparisonto identify the earliest commit
Fig. 11. The impact of line similarity threshold.
that introduces the statements contributing to the bug, marking
it as the bug-inducing commit.
To do the ablation study, we first use DATASET -FA and
compare S EM-SZZ with three of its variants: S EM-SZZ-c,
SEM-SZZ-d, and SEM-SZZ-l, each missing one key component.
Then we change the line similarity threshold and evaluate its
impact on the SEM-SZZ’s performance. In SEM-SZZ-c, we only
compare the constraints and drop the comparison of data flow.
Similarly, S
EM-SZZ-d only focuses on comparing the data flow
and drops the comparison of constraints. Both variants would
cause fewer buggy statements to be identified. In S EM-SZZ-
l, we do not use the line similarity comparison to identify
bug-inducing commits, instead following V-SZZ’s approach by
selecting the earliest one.
From TableV, it’s evident that SEM-SZZ achieves the highest
F1-score compared to all of its variants. While S EM-SZZ-c
demonstrates the best precision among all methods, dropping
data flow comparison results in a significant decrease in re-
call. Similarly, dropping constraint comparison has a substantial
negative impact on recall performance. Both constraint and data
flow comparisons contribute almost equally to recall. Moreover,
our method of locating bug-inducing commits enhances the
method’s ability to point out bug-inducing commits, improving
all metrics. It improves precision by 5%, recall by 3%, and F1-
score by 5% compared to S
EM-SZZ-l. Fig. 11 shows that the
choice of line similarity threshold also influences the perfor-
mance. When the line similarity threshold rises from 0.65 to
0.75, the F1-score also increases. However, when the threshold
increases from 0.75 to 0.85, the F1-score drops. This shows that
0.75 is an appropriate value for the line similarity threshold.
RQ-2: Table V illustrates that each of our key designs
contributes to the performance in identifying bug-inducing
commits. Both constraint comparison and data flow com-
parison contribute equally to recall. Additionally, our
method of locating bug-inducing commits enhances the
performance across all metrics and 0.75 is the appropriate
value for the line similarity threshold.
D. Time Efficiency
In this section, our objective is to assess the time consumption
of our approach during program analysis. We compare the
performance of our S
EM-SZZ with the baseline A-SZZ, both
of which involve analyzing the program’s structure.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:26:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 012 =====

3048 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SOFTW ARE ENGINEERING, VOL. 50, NO. 11, NOVEMBER 2024
Fig. 12. A failing example.
The outcome reveals that it takes approximately three hours
and fifty minutes to process all examples in DATASET-A,
equating to an average of 1.95 seconds per test case. Compared
to A-SZZ, our approach takes approximately three times longer.
This is attributed to the fact that our method involves analyzing
both the previous and current versions of the program, whereas
A-SZZ only needs to focus on the current version. Additionally,
our approach requires collecting states and comparing them
between two program versions. Despite the increased time over-
head, we believe our approach remains practical and applicable
in real-world scenarios.
RQ-3: SEM-SZZ takes approximately 1.95 seconds to han-
dle a fixing commit from scratch. This duration includes
tasks such as extracting the source files, collecting and
comparing states, and locating bug-inducing commits.
