VI. D
ISCUSSION
A. Analysis for the Failure Case
In this section, we aim to analyze the reasons behind the
failures observed in some cases. We randomly select 100 cases
to analyze the reasons for the failures. After analysis, the failed
reasons can be summarized as follows:
Line similarity fails to determine whether a commit is
buggy. Out of the 100 cases analyzed, 28 cases fail because
S
EM-SZZ fails to determine whether a commit is buggy.
The main reason for this is the line similarity matching pro-
tocol used in our method. In our approach, for each statement
contributing to the bug, if there all exists a line with string
similarity beyond a threshold, we assume that the commit is
influenced by the buggy. However, this method sometimes fails
to accurately identify the bug-inducing commits. For instance,
consider the commit 15273ffd7ef [38], which adds a new
line ret = 0;. Our method generates two buggy statements:
if (!ret) and return ret;. However, when locating
the bug-inducing commit, the method encounters many state-
ments like if (ret), which exhibit high line similarity but
have completely different semantic meanings. This can lead to
incorrect judgments and result in finding false bug-inducing
commits. This issue is particularly prevalent when the buggy
statements contain many short statements.
Fig. 13. An example to show the effectiveness of program slicing.
Failing to point out buggy statements correctly. Another
main reason for the failure is that our method fails to point out
buggy statements correctly. This issue is responsible for most of
the remaining failing cases. F or instance, while the added line
may influence the variable’s data flow, analyzing the affected
variable’s data flow may not yield correct results.
Consider the commit 072b30642f9[39], illustrated in Fig.12.
This commit introduces a new code line at line 2, highlighted in
green, impacting the data flow of the variabledrv. Our method,
accordingly, compares its data flow with the previous version
and identifies lines 1 and 3 as buggy statements. However,
tracing back these unmodified lines does not lead us to the bug-
inducing commit, resulting in the failure of our method in this
scenario.
After carefully analyzing the bug-fixing commit and the bug-
inducing commit, we find that the bug occurs because the
bug-inducing commit attempts to introduce a new function
in the program but forgets to use it. Specifically, it creates
the iwl_load_fw_dbg_tlv function. However, the bug-
inducing commit only defines the function and forgets to use
it. Consequently, the bug-fixing commit fixes the bug by using
the iwl_load_fw_dbg_tlv function in line 2. Therefore,
we can conclude that the bug has nothing to do with the data
flow of the drvvariable. As a result, S
EM-SZZ fails to identify
the bug-inducing commit in this case.
B. Effectiveness of Program Slicing in Finding
Bug-Inducing Commits
Although tracing back the unmodified lines near the added
lines is an effective approach for finding bug-inducing com-
mits if we do not consider precisi on, there are still some bug-
inducing commits that cannot be found in this way. In this
section, we discuss whether program slicing, which explores N
basic blocks near the added lines, helps find more bug-inducing
commits that the baselines cannot detect.
In the experiment, we try to find bug-inducing commits that
S
EM-SZZ can detect but baselines can not. The experimental
result shows that S EM-SZZ does find bug-inducing commits
that the baselines cannot detect, accounting for 1.4% of the
total test cases. One typical example is the commit bfab7c8ff89
[40], shown in Fig. 13. In this case, the bug occurs because
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:26:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 013 =====

TANG et al.: ENHANCING BUG-INDUCING COMMIT IDENTIFICATI ON: A FINE-GRAINED SEMANTIC ANALYSIS APPROACH 3049
Fig. 14. The impact of parameter N.
the previous version of the program does not call the fwn-
ode_handle_putfunction before returning. If we trace back
the two nearest lines between the added line, we cannot find the
bug-inducing commit. However, by comparing the differences
in the data flow of the variable fwnode, we can locate lines 1
and 3. Tracing back from these lines allows us to successfully
identify the bug-inducing commit.
C. Impact of the Maximum Search Step
In this section, we aim to investigate the impact of the maxi-
mum search step parameter N. As mentioned earlier, given that
most bug-inducing commits can be identified by tracing back
nearby lines, we set the maximum search step parameter N
to three. This parameter dictates that for each added line, we
search three basic blocks above and below it.
In this section, we vary the parameter N from 1 to 5 to
assess the performance of S
EM-SZZ under different settings.
Our evaluation focuses on key aspects such as F1-score and time
efficiency. Here, to show the influence of the maximum search
step on time efficiency more clearly, we exclude the time of
extracting source files.
Fig. 14 presents the results of the experiment. It is evident
that varying the number of the maximum search step does
not significantly impact time efficiency. While there is a slight
increase in time cost as the number of maximum search steps
grows, the increase is not substantial. Similarly, varying the
number of the maximum search steps does not significantly
impact the F1-score. It increases from a maximum search step
of 1 to 3, then decreases from 4 to 5. The reason for growth
is pretty easy to understand. As the number of the maximum
search step grows, S
EM-SZZ can expand the search scope and
analyze more basic blocks. However, as mentioned earlier, most
bug-inducing commits can be identified by tracing back nearby
lines. Therefore, we can assume that if a basic block is far
from the added lines, it is unlikely to contain lines that can be
traced back to find bug-inducing commits. Consequently, if the
parameter N is set too large and the search scope is too broad,
there is a high probability of including irrelevant statements in
the identified buggy statements, even if these statements have
data flow or control flow relationships with the added lines.
Finally, the inclusion of irrelevant statements in the identified
buggy statements can adversely affect the bug-inducing commit
localization process, resulting in false results.
TABLE VI
THE PERFORMANCE COMPARISONS BETWEEN SEM-SZZ
AND BUGNNINGS
Approach Precision Recall F1-score
BUGNNINGS
BUGNNINGS*
0.51
0.51
0.35
0.50
0.41
0.50
SEM-SZZ 0.68 0.66 0.67
A typical example is commit 5574d329044 [41]. When the
parameter N is set to 3, S EM-SZZ successfully identifies the
correct bug-inducing commit. However, when the parameter N
is increased to 5, SEM-SZZ fails to find the correct bug-inducing
commit. This failure occurs because, with N set to 5, the search
scope becomes too large and includes the statement struct
device *dev = &priv->udev->dev; as one of the
statements contributing to the bug. This statement, located over
100 lines away from the added line, is unrelated to the bug,
despite its data flow relation with the added line.
D. Comparison With Another Semantic-Based Approach
In this section, we compare SEM-SZZ with another semantic-
based approach called BUGNNINGS [42]. This method first
builds program dependence graphs for both the bug-fixing ver-
sion and the version preceding the bug-fixing commit. It then
computes the differences between these two versions of the pro-
gram dependence graph. This helps identify the code statements
that have a dependent relationship with the code changes in the
bug-fixing commit. Finally, the method traverses the commit
history to identify the earliest version that introduced all code
statements with a dependence relationship to the changes in the
bug-fixing commit.
The original implementation of BUGNNINGS is based on
W ALA, a Java program analysis infrastructure, and requires
compiling the program. However, compiling and analyzing a
large program, such as the Linux kernel, takes a very long time.
Considering that our dataset contains tens of thousands of bug-
fixing commits, strictly following the implementation in the
paper would result in unacceptable time consumption.
To address this, we utilize a tool called Joern[43], which can
build the program dependence graph (PDG) from the abstract
syntax tree (AST). We first extract the file content of the two
program versions and use Joern to build the PDG based on this
content. Then, we compare the PDGs of the two versions to
identify code statements that have a dependence relationship
with the changes in the bug-fixing commit.
The experimental result is shown in Table VI. The original
result can be seen in the second row of the table. However,
during implementation, we found that Joern failed to generate
PDGs for some test cases. Therefore, we filtered out these test
cases and obtained the result labeled BUGNNINGS*. Accord-
ing to the table, S
EM-SZZ outperforms BUGNNINGS in both
precision and recall.
The fundamental reason for this is that comparing the dif-
ferences in PDGs is not suitable in this scenario. For example,
consider the commit 7090abd6ad0[44] in Fig. 15. According to
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:26:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 014 =====

3050 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SOFTW ARE ENGINEERING, VOL. 50, NO. 11, NOVEMBER 2024
Fig. 15. A failing example of the BUGNNINGS approach.
the commit message, the bug occurs because the bug-inducing
commit introduces the dma variable but does not set the burst
size. In S EM-SZZ, the data flow of the lpss variable is com-
pared, which correctly locates line 4, highlighted in yellow.
Conversely, BUGNNINGS incorrectly locates the place where
lpssis defined, which is line 1.
In fact, BUGNNINGS often tends to locate line numbers far
from the added lines based on PDGs. As mentioned earlier,
most bug-inducing commits can be found by tracing back the
lines near the added lines. This is the one main reason for its
poor performance. Another reason is its analysis of control flow
dependence. For instance, a newly addedifstatement can have
the control flow dependent relationship with many lines in the
program, often including many irrelevant lines.
E. Threats to Validity
Internal Validity.Threats to internal validity refer to causality,
bias, and errors in the experiment. One potential threat is that we
do not compile the entire source code of the program. Instead,
we utilize the tree-sitter parser to implement fuzzy parsing[45],
allowing us to analyze only part of the program. However,
fuzzy parsing may not accurately reflect the behavior of the
program, especially when the program contains many macros.
This could potentially lead to errors when creating datasets
and undermine the effectiveness of S
EM-SZZ in comparison.
Our implementation of BUGNNINGS faces the same issue,
as we build program dependence graphs directly from abstract
syntax trees. Another threat is the analysis of failure cases in
the discussion. We only randomly selected a subset of failure
cases for analysis which could also result in bias.
External Validity. Threats to external validity refer to the
applicability of our approach to other scenarios. One potential
threat is that we only implemented and evaluated our approach
on the projects in the C programming language. This limitation
arises due to the lack of ghost commits in other programming
languages. This r aises concerns about the portability of our
approach to other programming languages. To enhance gen-
eralization, we evaluate our approach on a larger dataset than
those used in previous studies. Another threat is that, in our
dataset, each bug-fixing commit typically corresponds to only
one bug-inducing commit, which may not reflect real-world
scenarios. In the future, we plan to extend our approach to
more programming languages and collect additional datasets to
address these issues.
Construct Validity. Threats to construct validity refer to the
accuracy of the measures used to represent the concepts in
the study. Our approach might not perfectly encapsulate the
complexities of real-world software development. For example,
S
EM-SZZ cannot handle test cases without changed lines in
functions. Therefore, it is not applicable to the entire dataset.
To mitigate this threat, we power a baseline with S
EM-SZZ
and apply it on the whole dataset when evaluating S EM-SZZ’s
effectiveness.
Conclusion Validity. Threats to conclusion validity refers to
the accuracy of the conclusions drawn from the data. In our
study, we draw conclusions based on a dataset from the Linux
kernel, which may not fully represent other software develop-
ment scenarios. Although we have analyzed the dataset and
found that it includes both small and large commits, similar to
those found in other developm ent contexts, there may still be
limitations in generalizing our findings. To address this, we plan
to extend our approach to include other programming languages
and projects in the future.
