K. Kurniawan, A. Ekelhart, E. Kiesling et al. Computers & Security 121 (2022) 102828 
Fig. 7. Signature/rule-based threat detection example using the translated Sigma -rule query. 
Listing 5. Alerting policy represented as SPARQL query. 
below 0.5 are considered low integrity and the respective triple 
?file :isExecutedBy ?process ) will be marked with the 
detected rule. 17 
Signature/Rule-based Threat Detection We complement the 
provenance-based mechanisms with a signature/rule-based detec- 
tion approach that utilizes IoC deﬁnitions to identify known at- 
tacks in log events. This illustrates that the uniform KG representa- 
tion facilitates the combination of a variety of approaches by using 
a common declarative query language. 
Signatures are an established and effective approach in de- 
tecting known attack patterns, but maintaining the set of rules 
and signatures can be labour-intensive ( Li et al., 2021 ). To tackle 
this problem, KRYSTAL leverages Sigma 18 –a n open, shareable, 
community-driven and generic rule format for threat detection in 
logs. 
Figure 7 part (1) shows an example of signature/rule-based 
threat detection deﬁned in Sigma . 19 Each Sigma -rule is written 
in YAML 20 and deﬁnes the detection rule and its metadata ( ti- 
tle, id, date, author, log-source etc.). A key beneﬁt of these rules 
is that the tags metadata links rules to speciﬁc TTPs from MITRE 
ATT&CK. For example, attack.t1204.002 corresponds to the tech- 
nique T1204.002 21 ( User Execution: Malicious File ). As per November 
2021 22 , Sigma contains more than 1497 rules/signatures for differ- 
ent log sources (e.g., application, network, web logs) and platforms 
(e.g., Linux & Windows). 
17 We used the SPARQL CONSTRUCT syntax to generate new triples and link the 
detected alert to the respective rule. 
18 https://github.com/SigmaHQ/sigma 
19 https://github.com/SigmaHQ/sigma 
20 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YAML 
21 https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1204/003/ 
22 Last access: 11/26/2021 
Our framework translates these Sigma rule speciﬁcations 23 au- 
tomatically and transforms them into SPARQL query expressions. 
Speciﬁcally, we identiﬁed two search-identiﬁers under the detec- 
tion attribute: (i) lists that contain strings applied to the full log 
message and joined with a logical ’OR’, and (ii) maps that consist 
of key/value pairs, where key is a ﬁeld in the log data and value 
is a string or integer. Lists of maps are joined with a logical “OR”
while all elements of a map are joined with a logical “AND”. 
We express lists as SPARQL ﬁlters with regex matching, while 
maps are represented as triple patterns, i.e. Subject (S), Predicate 
(P), and Object (O). S is a log object, P is a log property i.e., key/ﬁeld 
in the log data and O is the value. Similar to lists , we express 
the key/value pair matching using regex ﬁlters in SPARQL. Fur- 
thermore, we also map and transform the rule metadata into RDF. 
Figure 7 part (2) shows an example translation of a Sigma rule into 
SPARQL and RDF. 
The translated Sigma rules are executed against the provenance 
graph to detect potential attacks/threats in the Threat Detection and 
Alerting module of our framework. As we can see in Fig. 7 part (3), 
we detect an alert called “Program Executions in Suspicious Folder ”
in the provenance graph since the execution of the /tmp/vUgefal 
process is located in the /tmp/ folder as deﬁned in the Sigma rule. 
Subsequently, the generated alert will be linked automatically to 
the T1204.002 ( User Execution: Malicious File ) technique from the 
ATT&CK knowledge graph ( Kurniawan et al., 2021 ) in the back- 
ground knowledge (cf. Fig. 7 part (4)). We explain this linking 
mechanism further in Section 6.3 . 
6.3. Attack graph reconstruction 
The next important step once the provenance graph has been 
constructed and alerts have been raised is to understand how the 
alerts are connected and to reconstruct potential attack steps. To 
this end, we construct an attack graph and the attack scenario 
out of the provenance graph through (i) Backward-Forward Chain- 
ing and (ii) Graph Querying . 
Backward-Forward Chaining Backward-Forward Chaining is 
used to ﬁrst identify the potential root cause of an attack and then 
reconstruct the overall attack steps. As provenance-based alerting 
may produce a lot of alerts, we need to prioritize them and iden- 
tify potential root cause alerts of an attack. This can be done by 
assigning an alert score during backward searching , i.e., increment- 
ing alert scores of each predecessor alert on a path. 
23 https://github.com/SigmaHQ/sigma/wiki/Speciﬁcation 
9
