K. Kurniawan, A. Ekelhart, E. Kiesling et al. Computers & Security 121 (2022) 102828 
Listing 6. Backward searching expressed as SPARQL query. 
Listing 7. Forward chaining mechanism expressed as SPARQL query. 
For this search, we leverage Property Paths 24 , a SPARQL feature 
that allows us to ﬁnd routes between nodes in the RDF provenance 
graph. Recall that we used rdfs7 inference to automatically gener- 
ate an upper-level relation :provRel between system objects. 
As shown in Listing 6 , the backward search query consists of 
a triple pattern [ ?currentAlert ∧ :provRel ∗ ?s ], in which 
∧ . ∗ represents the property path that ﬁnds all possible back- 
ward connections from a node ?currentAlert to a node ?s 
via the relation property :provRel , where ?s is classiﬁed as 
part of another alert. We represent this condition as an RDF-star 25 
statement, i.e., [ << ?s ?p ?o >> rule:hasDetectedRule 
?rule ]. 
Next, we iteratively update the alert scores for each prede- 
cessor alert (+1). After scoring all alerts, we can construct attack 
sequences, starting with the alerts with the highest values and 
performing forward chaining to construct attack scenario graphs. 
We use the same technique as we did for backward chaining, 
i.e., property paths to ﬁnd forward routes connected to the de- 
ﬁned starting nodes. Listing 7 shows the generic SPARQL query 
to construct an attack scenario from the provenance graph. From 
the ?startingNode , it ﬁnds possible routes and visits connected 
nodes via the :provRel relation. A threshold deﬁnes which nodes 
will be connected, e.g., only low integrity nodes with an integrity 
tag lower than 0.5. 
Graph Querying Graph querying can detect attack behavior in a 
provenance graph based on attack patterns. The graph query pat- 
terns can be constructed from observed behavior or existing in- 
formation in published CTI, incident reports, public malware doc- 
umentation, etc. Based on that, the patterns can be constructed 
manually or –p o t e n t i a l l y –a l s o through automated extraction 
methods such as AttacKG ( King and Chen, 2003b ). 
Figure 8 visualizes a graph query example. A subset of the 
graph (red box) represents an observed attack pattern inside the 
provenance graph. Unlike previous work ( Gao et al., 2018a; 2018b; 
Milajerdi et al., 2019a ) that use custom domain-speciﬁc languages 
to perform graph querying, KRYSTAL provides a uniform graph 
querying mechanism with a high expressivity through SPARQL. Fur- 
thermore, it also supports linking to other datasets. 
To formulate graph patterns in SPARQL 26 , we can deﬁne sys- 
tem object types as nodes (i.e., via Classes ) and their interac- 
tions as relation properties (i.e., via Object Properties ). The formu- 
lated graph queries can be executed against the provenance graphs 
24 https://www.w3.org/TR/sparql11-query/#propertypaths 
25 https://w3c.github.io/rdf- star/cg- spec/editors _ draft.html 
26 Graph pattern that identiﬁes a speciﬁc known attack pattern; deﬁned based on 
the DARPA Transparent Computing TA5.1 Ground Truth Report ( DAR, 2021 ). 
Fig. 8. Graph query alignment example: Graph query (red box) is aligned over the 
provenance graph to detect potential attack patterns. The constructed attack graph 
below represents a detected pattern. (For interpretation of the references to colour 
in this ﬁgure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.) 
Listing 8. SPARQL graph query 26 for Fig. 8 . 
to match potential attack patterns. Listing 8 27 depicts an exam- 
ple graph query visualized in Fig. 8 . It detects a potential attack 
where a browser receives a connection from a socket ( ?socket 
:isReceivedBy ?browser ). The fact that ?browser is of 
type :Browser is established in the background knowledge (i.e. 
< http://w3id.org/sepses/..knowledge > ). The SPARQL 
query federation mechanism is used to include the background 
knowledge in the query ( SERVICE syntax). 
Subsequently, the browser creates a ﬁle in the local system 
(deﬁned by ?browser :writes ?file1 ). This ﬁle is then exe- 
27 Note that the automatic construction of graph patterns from existing resources 
is out of scope for this paper. 
10
