K. Kurniawan, A. Ekelhart, E. Kiesling et al. Computers & Security 121 (2022) 102828 
Table 8 
Detection techniques supported by state of the art approaches. 
Detection 
Technique 
Holmes 
( Milajerdi et al., 2019b ) 
Morse ( Hossain et al., 
2020 ) 
Poirot ( Milajerdi et al., 
2019a ) 
Rapsheet ( Hassan et al., 
2020 ) Krystal 
Tag-Propagation - ✓ - - ✓ 
Rule/Policy-Based ✓ ✓ - - ✓ 
Signature-Based - - - ✓ ✓ 
Graph Query - - ✓ - ✓ 
Tactical Analysis 
(TTP Mapping) 
✓ - - ✓ ✓ 
virtualized graphs ( Kurniawan et al., 2022; Xiao et al., 2019 ), and 
(v) stream reasoning techniques Dell’Aglio et al. (2017) . 56 
Standard Query Language KRYSTAL leverages SPARQL 
Consortium et al. (2013) , a graph-based query language for 
RDF that offers high expressivity and supports complex querying 
(e.g., aggregation, subqueries, negation) in a declarative man- 
ner Kaminski et al. (2016) . We ﬁnd that this standardized query 
language provides powerful means to deﬁne reusable rules, 
policies and graph patterns (cf. R2). 
In particular, we observe that SPARQL property path queries 
can perform analyses that are critical to provenance-based anal- 
yses –s u c h as backward-forward chaining for attack graph re- 
construction – eﬃciently. This is despite the fact that theoretical 
studies Arenas et al. (2012) on the computational complexity of 
property paths found that the implementation of a naïve (unﬁl- 
tered) query can result in double exponential runtime complex- 
ity, which becomes critical, e.g., for nodes with more than 15k se- 
quence paths. The typical property path lengths in our scenario at- 
tack graphs, however, tend to be rather short, with a maximum 
path length of 37. This is attributable to the absence of long chains 
in the provenance data to begin with on the one hand, but also 
due to tagging and ﬁltering mechanisms such as attenuation and 
decay, which effectively limit path lengths by focusing only on rel- 
evant suspicious events and nodes with low integrity. As a conse- 
quence, we observe that the attack graph reconstruction through 
property paths performs eﬃciently. 
Although SPARQL is part of computer science curricula and 
is increasingly being adopted in many industries 57 , it is typ- 
ically new to security analysts and thus requires some train- 
ing. This could partly be addressed with general-purpose visual 
query building and exploration tools such as Haag et al. (2014) , 
Vargas et al. (2019) , but we also see a potential for future work in 
the development of intuitive specialized interfaces for threat de- 
tection and attack reconstruction. 
Integrated & Modular Framework Current research has re- 
sulted in numerous prototypes that each provide solutions for spe- 
ciﬁc detection techniques. KRYSTAL , by contrast, enables the com- 
bination of multiple different threat detection techniques and at- 
tack reconstruction approaches in a single integrated framework 
(cf. R2). Instead of applying different techniques –e a c h with their 
own preprocessing pipelines –i n isolation, the framework allows 
us to compare and combine different techniques in a single model. 
In Sections 6 and 7 , we speciﬁcally showed how a variety of de- 
tection and attack reconstruction techniques can be formulated in 
SPARQL and executed within the KRYSTAL framework. The modular- 
ity of the framework also makes it extensible for future techniques. 
Distributed Log Analysis In production settings, security anal- 
ysis will often require and involve data from disparate sources. 
KRYSTAL is built upon Semantic Web technologies which are ex- 
plicitly designed for decentralization. Consequently, KRYSTAL inher- 
56 For a survey of RDF data storage and query processing schemes, cf. 
Wylot et al. (2018) . For a survey of approaches to scale to massive data, cf. 
Ma et al. (2016) . 
57 cf. http://sparql.club 
ently supports distributed analysis (i.e., querying data across differ- 
ent machines). In Sections 6 and 7 , we demonstrated how KRYSTAL 
can integrate external information sources and facilitate distributed 
analysis through SPARQL query federation, a technique that enables 
multiple data sources to be queried in an integrated manner. 
To support large-scale provenance graph based attack discovery 
in production environments, it is necessary to distribute and paral- 
lelize computational loads to multiple (local) log processing nodes. 
This will be part of our future research, where we plan to allow for 
independent local analysis modules for threat detection and alert- 
ing and to integrate the local results into a (global) module, e.g., 
via SPARQL query federation in order to construct complete attack 
graphs to address cross-machine attack scenarios. If necessary, sev- 
eral layers of hierarchies can be introduced to better scale the co- 
ordination effort. 
Online Attack Graph Reconstruction KRYSTAL has been evalu- 
ated in an oﬄine setting, which can facilitate, e.g., forensic anal- 
yses. A (near real-time) online deployment mode would require 
consideration of issues for attack reconstruction over streaming 
data. In particular, it would require (i) strategies to dynamically 
construct attack graphs, (ii) mechanisms to manage continuous up- 
dates on a multitude of parallel attack graph reconstruction pro- 
cesses, (iii) policies for prioritizing and discarding attack graph 
reconstruction processes. Furthermore, the complexity of the ap- 
proach grows if analyses should be performed in large distributed 
scenarios and over multiple data streams, which raises issues 
around time synchronization, latency, throughput, etc. We plan to 
investigate online scenarios with (semantic) streaming technolo- 
gies and extend the framework accordingly in future work. 
Unknown Attack Behavior To increase robustness against new 
ways to evade detection, KRYSTAL provides a more general frame- 
work that makes it possible to combine a variety of attack recon- 
struction techniques on top of a common knowledge graph founda- 
tion. For instance, we demonstrated how KRYSTAL can incorporate 
existing community-based threat detection rules such as Sigma 
and integrate them with state of the art detection techniques that 
have been demonstrated to be effective in the context of Advanced 
Persistent Threat. 
We argue that although evasion techniques to circumvent de- 
tection will always be a concern, the possibility to apply multi- 
ple techniques (combining, e.g., rule-based, graph queries, and tag 
propagation) in the KRYSTAL framework can provide more robust 
detection of unknown attack behavior compared to the isolated ap- 
plication of individual approaches. Furthermore the ﬂexible frame- 
work allows for faster adaptation, experimentation, and parameter 
tuning. For instance, the rules and policies in the Listings in this 
paper can be adapted quickly to address new evasion techniques. 
10. Conclusions 
In this paper, we proposed KRYSTAL , a modular knowledge 
graph-based framework for threat detection, scenario reconstruc- 
tion, and tactical attack analysis. We provide an open, standards- 
based provenance graph representation based on Semantic Web 
technologies that can ﬂexibly combine multiple threat detection 
15
