K. Kurniawan, A. Ekelhart, E. Kiesling et al. Computers & Security 121 (2022) 102828 
tion. 10 In the security context, this is a major beneﬁt, as security- 
relevant information is typically dispersed across different sys- 
tems and networks and requires the consideration of e.g., different 
log sources, IT repositories, and cyberthreat intelligence sources 
( Kurniawan et al., 2020 ). 
4. Requirements 
Based on our analysis of the limitations of the state of the art 
(cf. Section 2 ), we identify the following set of requirements for the 
construction of a modular framework for knowledge graph-driven 
tactical attack discovery. 
R1. Contextualization 
Investigating and prioritizing security alerts, which typically 
include a large number of false positives, requires extensive 
security domain knowledge to understand the context of an 
alert ( Sarker et al., 2020 ). This makes it necessary to contextualize 
information in the provenance graph with appropriate background 
knowledge, which necessitates a ﬂexible data model. As an exam- 
ple, important contextual information on the system under eval- 
uation includes installed software and patch versions of the host 
where an alert has been raised. Existing approaches (e.g., Hossain 
et al., 2020; Milajerdi et al., 2019a ) typically hard-code some con- 
text information (e.g., external networks and software), whereas 
the majority currently ignores them altogether. To overcome these 
limitations, the ability to contextualize provenance graphs with 
background knowledge on the system under investigation is a key 
requirement for our framework. 
R2. Reusability and Extensibility Reusability – e.g., of attack 
patterns and resulting graphs –a n d extensibility – e.g., of de- 
tection, reconstruction, and summarization techniques –h a v e not 
been design priorities in existing monolithic solutions for prove- 
nance based log analysis. Consequently, approaches each rely on 
their own data structures developed speciﬁcally for each approach, 
While this allows for some optimization, it makes it diﬃcult to 
reuse and extend methods, techniques, information, and results. 
The lack of uniﬁed data formats as a (more speciﬁc) aspect of this 
requirement has also been highlighted as a major limitation of the 
state of the art in a recent survey ( Li et al., 2021 ). To tackle this 
limitation, the developed framework should – while offering ad- 
equate performance –m a k e it possible to: (i) formulate and ex- 
change rules for detection, alerting, and attack graph reconstruc- 
tion in a declarative language, (ii) exchange instances of prove- 
nance graphs in a standard representation, (iii) query the prove- 
nance graphs in a standard language, (iv) incorporate and exchange 
threat information, and (v) reuse and combine analytic techniques. 
R3. Threat intelligence linking Connecting isolated events to re- 
construct a complete attack scenario is an important step to under- 
stand the relevance and impact of alerts. In this context, an ability 
to link low-level threat evidence to phases of complex multi-stage 
attacks would be highly beneﬁcial. While some existing approaches 
( Hassan et al., 2020; Milajerdi et al., 2019b; Zou et al., 2020 ) aim to 
identify steps and associate them with high-level APT phases, they 
do not take advantage of the abundance of available Cyber Threat 
Intelligence (CTI) information available in external sources such as 
MITRE ATT&CK ( Mitre, 2021 ), which offers links to Common Vul- 
nerabilities and Exposures (CVE) ( CVE, 2021 ), Common Weakness 
Enumeration (CWE) ( CWE, 2021 ), and others. We therefore deﬁne 
the ability to leverage such connections and provide integrated 
querying capabilities as a key requirement for the developed ap- 
proach. This will facilitates abstraction from low-level event graphs 
to higher level techniques and tactics, provide additional informa- 
10 https://www.w3.org/TR/sparql11-federated-query/ 
tion for prioritization, impact assessment and mitigation, and make 
tedious attack investigations more eﬃcient and effective. 
R4. Cross-platform Interoperability Integrating provenance 
data from heterogeneous sources and constructing integrated at- 
tack graphs spanning multiple systems would be highly beneﬁcial 
in the face of complex multi-host/multi-platform attacks ( Li et al., 
2021 ). This necessitates a uniﬁed provenance representation that 
can abstract from speciﬁcs of individual platforms. 
5. Conceptualization 
In this section, we describe the conceptualization of our ap- 
proach and the use of inference for provenance graph construction. 
5.1. System-Call provenance representation 
Provenance graphs are a highly effective representation to keep 
track of information ﬂows ( Li et al., 2021 ). They represent inter- 
actions between objects as events. Each event involves a subject , 
i.e., a system object (e.g., a process, thread) that performs a par- 
ticular operation (e.g., write, read, send) on an object (e.g., ﬁle, 
socket, registry). As objects typically appear in multiple events, 
a graph emerges. Although system-call provenance is represented 
similarly across different existing approaches ( Hassan et al., 2020; 
Hossain et al., 2017; 2020; Milajerdi et al., 2019b ), no formal and 
standardized representation (ontology) exists. Instead, existing ap- 
proaches typically use ad-hoc and hard-coded data models which 
limits their interoperability, reusability and extensibility. 
5.2. KRYSTAL Provenance ontology 
We propose the KRYSTAL ontology 11 as as t a n d a r d representa- 
tion for system-call provenance graphs. Key beneﬁts of using on- 
tologies is the ability to share a common understanding – includ- 
ing concepts and structure, making assumptions explicit, facilitat- 
ing semantic reasoning, and promoting concept reuse ( Noy and 
McGuinness, 2001 ). Furthermore, the use of an ontology for prove- 
nance graph representation makes it easy to integrate background 
knowledge and unify the conceptual model across different threat 
detection approaches. 
In developing the KRYSTAL ontology, we followed a hybrid ap- 
proach, i.e., using bottom-up and top-down approaches concurrently 
( Noy and McGuinness, 2001 ). Bottom-up, we started by analysing 
low-level data structures from applications (e.g., auditlog) and 
identifying their entities and relations. Top-down, we considered 
attack patterns from existing cyberthreat intelligence sources (e.g., 
MITRE ATT&CK Mitre, 2021 ) and compared our ontology to existing 
non-ontological provenance models/schemas. Our developed ontol- 
ogy is able to represent low-level system-call provenance data and 
link it to high-level attack patterns (cf. Section 6.4 ). 
Figure 2 depicts an excerpt of the KRYSTAL Ontology centered 
around core concepts such as User , Host , System Object . 
The latter represent system entities such as Process es, File s, 
and Socket s. We assign each system object so to a class 
(identiﬁed by rdfs:Class ) and potential sub-classes (identi- 
ﬁed by rdfs:subClassOf ). Each system object so is a ver- 
tex v and the relations between system objects (e.g., writes , 
isReadBy , sends , etc.) are represented via edges e (identiﬁed by 
owl:ObjectProperty ). 
The SystemObject class represent system entities in general. It 
has three sub-classes such as Process , File and Socket . The Pro- 
cess class represents a running process in a system (e.g. ﬁrefox, 
ssh, etc.) while the File class represents a ﬁle (e.g., system ﬁle, ap- 
plication ﬁle, etc.). We introduce kry:writes , kry:isReadBy 
11 https://w3id.org/sepses/vocab/event/log/ 
5
