K. Kurniawan, A. Ekelhart, E. Kiesling et al. Computers & Security 121 (2022) 102828 
Table 1 
Comparison of attack discovery approaches . ( DS ) refers to domain-speciﬁc, ( N/A ) refers to not available, ( ✓ ) refers to provided, ( ✗ ) refers to not provided. 
Approaches Data Models 
Detection 
Techniques 
Data Reduction 
Techniques 
Attack 
Reconstruction 
High-Level 
Attack 
Summarization 
Background 
Knowledge 
Linking 
Published 
Prototype 
Backtracking ( King and 
Chen, 2003a ) 
Custom Graph Naive 
Backtracking 
✗ ✓ ✗ ✗ N/A 
AIQL ( Gao et al., 2018b ) Relational DB DS Query 
Language 
✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ N/A 
SAQL ( Gao et al., 2018a ) Relational DB DS Stream 
Query 
✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ N/A 
POIROT ( Milajerdi et al., 
2019a ) 
Custom Graph Graph 
Alignment 
✗ ✓ ✗ ✗ N/A 
HOLMES ( Milajerdi et al., 
2019b ) 
Custom Graph HSG/Severity 
Score 
✗ ✓ ✓ ✗ N/A 
RapSheet ( Hassan et al., 
2020 ) 
Custom Graph EDR/Threat 
Score 
CPR ( Xu et al., 2016 ) ✓ ✓ ✗ N/A 
Zou et al. (2020) Custom Graph Pre/Post 
Condition 
✗ ✗ ✓ ✗ N/A 
SLEUTH ( Hossain et al., 
2017 ) 
Custom Graph Tag 
Propagation 
✗ ✓ ✗ ✗ N/A 
MORSE ( Hossain et al., 
2020 ) 
Custom Graph Tag 
Propagation 
CSR ( Hossain et al., 
2018 ) 
✓ ✗ ✗ N/A 
CyGraph ( Noel et al., 2016 ) NoSQL Graph DS Query ✗ ✓ ✗ ✓ ✓ 
UCO ( Syed et al., 2016 ) RDF Graph SPARQL Query ✗ ✗ ✗ ✓ ✓ 
Ekelhart et al. (2018) RDF Graph SPARQL Query ✗ ✗ ✗ ✓ ✓ 
Kurniawan et al. (2020) RDF Graph SPARQL Query ✗ ✓ ✗ ✓ ✓ 
SLOGERT ( Ekelhart et al., 
2021 ) 
RDF Graph SPARQL Query HDT ( Fernández et al., 
2013 ) 
✗ ✗ ✓ ✓ 
KRYSTAL RDF Graph Hybrid HDT ( Fernández et al., 
2013 ) 
✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ 
linking to background knowledge (e.g., assets, vulnerabilities, cy- 
berthreat intelligence, etc.); such contextualization can help ana- 
lysts to identify and assess high-level attack scenarios in order to 
understand their signiﬁcance, cause, and impact. (iv) We provide 
an open source prototype of the system 4 and evaluate it on a well- 
established large-scale dataset ( DAR, 2021 ). 
The remainder of this paper is structured as follows: 
Section 2 discusses related work in threat detection and attack 
graph construction, Section 3 provides the necessary background 
on knowledge graph concepts that are central to the developed ap- 
proach; Section 4 puts forth a set of requirements as a basis of our 
proposed solution; Section 5 discusses the conceptualization of our 
approach; Section 6 introduces our knowledge graph-based attack 
detection framework, and Section 7 discusses the implementation 
and introduces application scenarios; we evaluate our approach in 
Section 8 , discuss the results in Section 9 and conclude with an 
outlook on future research in Section 10 . 
2. Related work 
In this article we focus on misuse-based intrusion detec- 
tion techniques, which search for well-deﬁned patterns of at- 
tack ( Kumar, 1996 ). Consequently, we organize related work on 
threat detection and attack graph construction into the following 
categories: (i) provenance-based tracking, (ii) tactical attack con- 
struction, (iii) graph queries, and (iv) ontology-based threat detec- 
tion. Table 1 summarizes and compares existing attack discovery 
approaches, which will be discussed in the following sections. 
Provenance-based Tracking Seminal work on provenance-based 
attack detection ( King and Chen, 2003a ) introduced the idea to 
investigate attacks through backward tracking. A major limita- 
tion of initial “naive” backtracking approaches is that they are 
based on coarse-grained provenance data. This typically introduces 
a large number of false dependencies in the graph, a problem 
known as “dependence explosion” ( Hossain et al., 2018 ). Several re- 
4 https://github.com/sepses/Krystal 
searchers introduced approaches to mitigate this problem through 
ﬁned-grained taint-tracking or information ﬂow tracking ( Ji et al., 
2017; 2018; Kemerlis et al., 2012 ). Although these approaches 
can accurately distinguish suspicious and benign nodes, scaling 
them remains a challenge ( Hossain et al., 2018 ). Another ap- 
proach tried to solve this problem by introducing tag-propagation . 
SLEUTH ( Hossain et al., 2017 ), for instance, introduced trustwor- 
thiness tags (t-tags) and conﬁdentiality tags (c-tags) that are used 
to assign suspicion levels to nodes and propagate them through 
the provenance graph. In combination with a policy framework, 
these tags can trigger alarms and successfully identify unseen at- 
tacks in real-time and with low overhead. However, SLEUTH suffers 
from numerous false-positives for attacks with long-running pro- 
cesses ( Hossain et al., 2020 ). MORSE ( Hossain et al., 2020 ) extends 
this approach by introducing tag-attenuation and tag-decay to cut 
down false alarms by more than an order of magnitude. To reduce 
the provenance graph, it indexes all subjects and objects using a 
numeric index. However, none of these approaches leverage stan- 
dard representations, but rely on custom graph models and hard- 
coded rules and policies. Consequently, they are diﬃcult to expand 
and it is diﬃcult to investigate the resulting attack graphs further, 
e.g., by linking them to background knowledge. Furthermore, both 
SLEUTH and MORSE do not explicitly represent the high-level con- 
text of attacks. As a result, it becomes exceedingly diﬃcult to iden- 
tify attacks as attack graphs become more complex. 
Our approach introduces a standard and ﬂexible graph model 
based on an ontology. Hence, with a standard graph model and 
declarative rules and policies, our approach can produce compact 
attack graphs and also ﬂexibly integrate and link them to back- 
ground knowledge. For graph reduction, we use (Header, Dictio- 
nary, Triples) HDT ( Fernández et al., 2013 ), a compact RDF-based 
structure that keeps large provenance graph compressed. We dis- 
cuss it in more detail in Section 6.1 . 
Tactical Attack Construction Provenance-based tracking typi- 
cally relies on a bottom-up approach, i.e., identifying attacks based 
on the causality relationship of system objects, such as processes, 
ﬁles, and sockets. By contrast, several approaches follow a top- 
3
