K. Kurniawan, A. Ekelhart, E. Kiesling et al. Computers & Security 121 (2022) 102828 
down strategy, i.e., they aim to identify attacks based on high- 
level models of APT campaigns (e.g. techniques, tactics) and/or kill- 
chain phases. HOLMES ( Milajerdi et al., 2019b ) introduced threat 
scores and 16 techniques, tactics, procedures (TTP) proposed by 
the authors to construct a high-level scenario graph (HSG) from 
a provenance graph. This approach can mitigate dependence ex- 
plosion and offers a map to TTP. However, its ability to identify 
attacks with only a single APT stage is limited ( Hossain et al., 
2020 ). RapSheet ( Hassan et al., 2020 ) is an attack graph con- 
struction approach based on alert correlation from a commer- 
cial Endpoint Detection and Response (EDR) tool. By incorporating 
67 EDR rules, it can relate alerts into a tactical provenance graph 
based on MITRE’s ATT&CK TTPs. For graph reduction, it implements 
causality-preserved reduction (CPR) ( Xu et al., 2016 ) that merges 
edges with identical operations and keeps only the edge with the 
latest timestamp. Our approach also facilitates TTP mappings, but 
we rather incorporate rules from open, standard and community- 
driven detection rules (i.e., SIGMA Roth and Patzke, 2021 ), thus 
avoiding a dependence on a commercial platform. 
Another recently proposed approach ( Zou et al., 2020 ) uses 
tactic-centric Advanced Persistent Threat (APT) recognition to de- 
tect APT tactics based on APT techniques’ prerequisites (i.e., re- 
quirements for techniques to be matched to a tactic) and post- 
conditions (i.e., the result of a technique, e.g., malicious process 
being created). The identiﬁed attack techniques are mapped to 
speciﬁc tactics and ranked based on their tactic matching. This 
approach shows the detected tactics and techniques, but it does 
not represent the complete attack scenario, i.e., attack sequences, 
causality and connections. 
In our work, we propose a hybrid approach that facilitates both 
bottom-up and top-down techniques for threat detection and at- 
tack construction in a single, modular framework. Our approach 
generates detailed attack graphs from low-level events but also fa- 
cilitates linking and contextualization to existing high-level, tacti- 
cal attack patterns such as MITRE ATT&CK TTPs. 
Graph Queries A number of research efforts resulted in query- 
based and graph-matching approaches to detect and construct 
attack scenario graphs from historical audit log data stored in 
databases. AIQL ( Gao et al., 2018b ) introduced a domain-speciﬁc 
model and query language to analyze and investigate attacks. SAQL 
( Gao et al., 2018a ) extends AIQL for stream-based querying over 
system monitoring data. POIROT ( Milajerdi et al., 2019a ) proposed 
an attack graph detection approach based on manually extracted 
graph patterns from previously seen attacks, e.g., in threat intel- 
ligence reports. In our approach, we rely on a semantic model, 
which facilitates graph matching through semantic graph queries 
(formulated in SPARQL). Furthermore, our RDF-based provenance 
graph can be easily queried and linked to internal and external 
background knowledge through SPARQL query federation. 
Ontology-based Threat Detection A number of research ef- 
forts investigated ontologies to support cybersecurity and threat 
detection. Early work ( Pinkston et al., 2003 ) developed an on- 
tology for the intrusion detection domain based on DAML+OIL 
( Mcguinness et al., 2002 ) to extend simple IDS taxonomies with 
machine-interpretable deﬁnitions. Ref. More et al. (2012) extended 
this IDS Ontology to incorporate cybersecurity-related information 
from heterogeneous resource (e.g., web texts, reports). 
Uniﬁe Cybersecurity Ontology (UCO) ( Syed et al., 2016 ) in- 
troduced a more instance-data driven approach to construct a 
rich cybersecurity ontology by integrating cybersecurity standards 
such as STIX (2021) , CyBox (2021) , CVE (2021) , CAPEC (2021) , 
CVSS (2021a) , and CVSS (2021b) . UCO provides integration from 
heterogeneous sources and supports reasoning (e.g. using prede- 
ﬁned rules to infer attacks). However, UCO and other previously 
proposed ontologies were designed to support intrusion detection 
rather than attack graph construction. More recent works such as 
Kenaza and Aiash (2016) proposed an ontology that supports IDS 
alert correlation. Through the use of reasoning rules, it can infer 
and classify IDS alerts (i.e., false alert, unclassiﬁed, plausible at- 
tack) based on existing vulnerability information. As the focus is 
solely on attack detection, however, this proposed approach does 
not result in attack graphs. 
In prior work, we proposed a modular ontology ( Ekelhart et al., 
2018 ) that can harmonize and integrate heterogeneous log 
sources (e.g., Syslog, Auth log, Apache log). Subsequent work 
( Kiesling et al., 2019 ) facilitates forensic analyses of arbitrary 
logs and contextualizes them with external background knowl- 
edge (e.g. CPE, CVE, CVSS, CWE, and CAPEC) in a federated settings 
( SPARQL, 2021 ). SLOGERT ( Ekelhart et al., 2021 ) extends this pre- 
vious work with the ability to construct knowledge graphs auto- 
matically from arbitrary raw log messages. It identiﬁes, links, and 
enriches entities in log sources with background knowledge. In this 
work, we extend and enhance our previous work on security on- 
tologies to integrate events from heterogeneous log sources, repre- 
sent them in attack scenario graphs, and link them to background 
knowledge. 
3. Background 
In this section, we introduce knowledge graphs as a conceptual 
foundation of our approach. 
Knowledge Graph A knowledge graph is a directed, labeled 
graph G = (V, E) where V is a set of vertices (nodes) and E is a 
set of edges (properties). A single graph is usually represented as 
a collection of triples T = < s p o > where s is a subject , p is a 
predicate , and o is an object . 
RDF, RDF-S, OWL Resource Description Framework (RDF) is a 
W3C 5 standard data model to represent knowledge graphs. In RDF, 
a subject is a resource identiﬁed by a unique identiﬁer (URI) or a 
blank-node, an object can be both resource, blank-node or literal 
(e.g. String, number), and predicate is a property deﬁned in an on- 
tology and must be a URI. RDF-S (Resource Description Framework 
Schema) 6 is a W3C standard data model for knowledge representa- 
tion. It extends the basic RDF vocabulary with a set of classes and 
RDFS entailment (inference patterns). 7 OWL (Ontology Web Lan- 
guage) 8 is also a W3C standard for authoring ontologies. We use 
RDF-S and OWL to represent our system-call provenance ontology. 
We discuss this in more detail in Section 5.2 . 
Semantic Reasoning One of the central ideas of both OWL and 
RDF-S is that they enable reasoning over a knowledge graph. This 
is an important aspect and enables us to automatically infer new 
knowledge based on existing facts (entities and their relationships). 
We leverage several built-in RDF-S and OWL reasoning rules in 
our approach as discussed in Section 5.3 , which are based on the 
foundation of description logics ( Horrocks, 2005 ). Furthermore, in 
our approach, semantic reasoning is used to simplify RDF map- 
pings during the provenance graph building process (discussed in 
more detail in Section 6.1 ) and to reduce the query complexity, e.g., 
for attack reconstruction i.e. backward-forward chaining mechanism 
(discussed in Section 6.3 ). 
SPARQL SPARQL 9 is a W3C query language to retrieve and ma- 
nipulate data stored in RDF. It offers rich expressivity for com- 
plex queries such as aggregation, subqueries, and negation. Fur- 
thermore, SPARQL provides capabilities to express queries across 
multiple distributed data sources through SPARQL query federa- 
5 https://www.w3.org/standards 
6 https://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-schema/ 
7 https://www.w3.org/TR/rdf11-mt/ 
8 https://www.w3.org/TR/owl2-overview/ 
9 https://www.w3.org/TR/sparql11-overview/ 
4
