K. Kurniawan, A. Ekelhart, E. Kiesling et al. Computers & Security 121 (2022) 102828 
Table 3 
Attack Scenarios. 
Scenario 
ID Dataset ID OS Platform Scenario Name Scenario description 
1 Cadets I FreeBSD Nginx 
backdoor 
Nginx backdoor w/ Drakon in-memory . An attacker sent a malformed HTTP request to a 
vulnerable Nginx web server that leads to several malicious ﬁle creations and process 
executions in the local system ( Figure 11 ). 
2 Cadets I FreeBSD Nginx 
backdoor 
Nginx backdoor w/ Drakon in-memory . A vulnerable Nginx webserver downloads several 
malicious ﬁles after being exploited by a malformed HTTP request ( Figure 12 ). 
3 Cadets II FreeBSD Nginx 
backdoor 
Nginx backdoor w/ Drakon in-memory . Similar to Scenario 3, the vulnerable Nginx webserver 
was successfully exploited by an attacker. It downloads a payload ﬁle which leads to 
sensitive information leaking ( Figure 13 ). 
4 Theia Ubuntu 
12.04 
Firefox 
backdoor 
Firefox backdoor w/ Drakon in-memory . Firefox process gets exploited by a malicious website 
to download and execute ﬁles to steal sensitive information from users ( Figure 11 ). 
5 Five 
Direction 
Windows 
10 
Firefox 
backdoor 
Firefox backdoor w/ Drakon in-memory . Firefox process gets exploited via a drakor memory 
payload after browsing a malicious website ( Figure 15 ). 
Furthermore, we extended the existing SEPSES Cybersecurity 
Knowledge Graph ( Kiesling et al., 2019 ) by including attack tech- 
niques and tactics from MITRE ATT&CK and incorporate it as exter- 
nal background knowledge. Furthermore, we translate existing IoC 
Sigma ( Roth and Patzke, 2021 ) rules into SPARQL queries. 
To construct attack graphs (through backward-forward chaining 
and graph querying ), link internal and external background knowl- 
edge (via SPARQL query federation), as well as to visualize the re- 
sulting attack graphs, we use the in-memory Jena TDB 33 and the 
Stardog Enterprise Knowledge Graph platform . 34 
7.2. Application scenarios 
In the following application scenarios, we demonstrate how 
the KRYSTAL framework automatically constructs compact attack 
graphs, links and contextualizes them with background knowledge, 
and ﬁnally maps them to high-level attack steps via TTPs deﬁned 
in MITRE ATT&CK. 
We use a DARPA dataset ( DAR, 2021 ) that contains attack sce- 
narios carried out by a red team as part of the DARPA Transpar- 
ent Computing (TC) program. An overview of the attack scenarios 
can be found in Table 3 . Due to space limitation, we only explain 
one scenario in this section (Scenario 1), and include the remaining 
scenarios in the appendix. Scenario 1 - Nginx backdoor w/ Drakon 
in-memory This attack scenario has been used as motivation exam- 
ple in Section 1 . As shown in Fig. 11 , our system detected a num- 
ber of alerts including ﬁle creation, change permission, ﬁle execu- 
tion, and data-leak . After performing backward and forward chain- 
ing, we successfully constructed the attack graph of this scenario. 
Furthermore, we performed query federation during forward chain- 
ing to include external background knowledge. Our query yields 
an attack graph that automatically links the detected alerts to the 
MITRE ATT&CK techniques and tactics. Finally, we can see the re- 
constructed attack graph together with its kill-chain phases such 
as Reconnaissance, Defense Evasion, Execution and Exﬁltration . 
8. Evaluation 
In this section, we evaluate the KRYSTAL framework through a 
set of experiments and discuss the results. 
8.1. Experimental setup 
We performed the experiments on two machines: (i) an Ubuntu 
18.04 Server (Intel 2.59 GHz vCPU, 32 GB RAM) was used for 
provenance graph building and evaluation of threat detection and 
alerting techniques. (ii) a Windows 10 (Intel 2.90 GHz vCPU, 16 GB 
33 https://jena.apache.org/documentation/tdb/ 
34 https://www.stardog.com/platform/ 
RAM) machine was used for scenario reconstruction, graph query- 
ing and attack graph visualization using Stardog Studio . 35 
Dataset Overview For the evaluation, we used well-established 
datasets from red vs. blue team adversarial engagements produced 
as part of the third Transparent Computing (TC) program organized 
by DARPA ( DAR, 2021 ). The datasets are organized into ﬁve cat- 
egories, namely Cadets, Trace, Theia, FiveDirections and ClearScope . 
Each dataset includes log events generated during the engage- 
ments on a speciﬁc targeted host and platform. For example, Cadets 
represents dtrace 36 log data from FreeBSD OS, Trace and Theia have 
been generated from auditd 37 Ubuntu log data, and FiveDirection 
contains ETW 38 log data from Microsoft Windows and ClearScope 
collected from Android logs. In addition, a description of attack 
steps is available as ground truth. Table 4 summarizes the ﬁve at- 
tack scenarios from the Theia (TH), Cadets (CD), and FiveDirection 
(FD) datasets that we evaluated. In total, the scenarios covers more 
than 7 days of log data from three datasets, with more than 53 GB 
of logs in JSON format. 39 
8.2. Experiment results 
We collect the following evaluations metrics in our experi- 
ments: (i) provenance graph size reduction and compression per- 
formance, (ii) run-time performance, (iii) provenance-based alert 
detection, (iv) rule-based alert detection. 
Graph Size Reduction & Compression Performance Table 4 shows 
the evaluation results for provenance graph generation and com- 
pression in the ﬁve scenarios. 
Our system generates RDF-based provenance graphs in RDF 
TURTLE format. 40 Out of the 18.7 GB Theia log dataset, for instance, 
we generated a 280 MB provenance graph (i.e., 66x smaller), the 
set of Cadets datasets (19 GB) resulted in a 400 MB provenance 
graph (i.e., 48x smaller), and out of the Five direction dataset 
(16 GB), we generated a 25 MB provenance graph (i.e., 640x 
smaller). 
The last column of Table 4 shows the compression re- 
sults of the generated provenance graphs for each dataset in 
HDT ( Fernández et al., 2013 ) format. On average, the resulting com- 
pressed provenance graphs are approximately smaller by a factor 
of 22 than the generated provenance graphs in TURTLE format. 
Run-time Performance We evaluate three aspects to measure 
the run-time performance of our approach: (i) Time for generating 
the provenance graphs from the log data, including time for tag- 
propagation, attenuation & decay and provenance-based alerting ; (ii) 
35 https://www.stardog.com/studio/ 
36 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DTrace 
37 https://linux.die.net/man/8/auditd 
38 https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/etw/event-tracing-portal 
39 Note that DARPA published the datasets in both binary and JSON formats, we 
used the JSON data as input in our evaluation. 
40 https://www.w3.org/TR/turtle/ 
12
