K. Kurniawan, A. Ekelhart, E. Kiesling et al. Computers & Security 121 (2022) 102828 
Fig. 5. Krystal Framework Architecture. 
Listing 1. Excerpt of an RDF-based provenance graph generated from a log event. 
tegrates a variety of attack discovery mechanisms and takes advan- 
tage of its semantic model to include internal and external knowl- 
edge in the analysis. Fig. 5 gives an overview of the KRYSTAL attack 
discovery framework which consists of three main parts, i.e., (i) 
provenance graph building, (ii) threat detection and alerting, and 
(iii) attack graph and scenario reconstruction. 
Security analysis is typically conducted either online or oﬄine . 
Online refers to an analysis performed in a running system in 
(near) real-time, whereas oﬄine refers to analysis over collected 
data. These two modes have a different purpose (monitoring vs 
forensics), but they can complement each other in hybrid settings 
( Marz and Warren, 2015 ). 
KRYSTAL works in an online mode in that it imports each 
log event in sequence from potentially heterogeneous hosts (e.g., 
Linux, Windows, FreeBSD). The Provenance Graph Building mod- 
ule then generates an RDF-based provenance graph, taking advan- 
tage of the well-deﬁned ontology and enabling enrichment with 
background knowledge. Subsequently, the Threat Detection & Alert- 
ing module allows for the combination of various approaches on 
the uniform Knowledge Graph (KG). We illustrate the generality 
of the approach by implementing a set of common mechanisms 
as SPARQL queries, combining (i) tag propagation, (ii) attenuation 
& decay, and (iii) signature-based detection based on Indicator of 
Compromise. The Attack Graph Reconstruction module then facili- 
tates (oﬄine) attack graph generation via Backward-forward chain- 
ing and attack pattern matching via Graph Querying over the prove- 
nance graph. We explain each component in more detail in the fol- 
lowing subsections. 
6.1. Provenance graph building 
This component consists of two sub-components, Log Parsing 
and RDF Mapping. Log Parsing transforms raw log events from het- 
erogeneous hosts and operating systems (e.g., auditd from Linux, 
ETW from Windows, and dtrace from FreeBSD) into a structured 
format (i.e., JSON). This component selects and parses important 
information from the log event such as system entities (e.g., pro- 
cesses, ﬁles, sockets, etc.) and their relations (e.g., read, write, ex- 
ecute, etc). RDF-Mapping maps the structured log data into an RDF 
Listing 2. Excerpt of inferred RDF triples. 
graph representation. Speciﬁcally, we used the KRYSTAL ontology 
described in Section 5.2 and RML 14 , a declarative RDF-mapping 
language, to map the parsed audit data and transform them into 
well-deﬁned, RDF-based provenance graphs. 
Listing 1 shows an excerpt of a log event in RDF representation. 
It captures the fact that a system object (Firefox process) created a 
ﬁle (“/home/admin/clean”). In RDF, the Firefox process is modeled 
as subject :Firefox , the “write” operation is represented as prop- 
erty kry:writes and the ﬁle “/home/admin/clean” is connected 
as object :/home/admin/clean . 
Taking advantage of reasoning rules (cf. Section 5.3 ), Listing 2 
shows the inferred RDF triples from the provenance graph. 
:Firefox has been identiﬁed as a kry:Process and 
kry:SystemObject . In addition, the provenance relation prop- 
erty :provRel with the object :/home/admin/clean has been 
added automatically, and the type of :/home/admin/clean has 
been inferred as kry:File . 
Graph Reduction & Compression We apply two strategies to re- 
duce the graph size. First, we automatically merge the duplicated 
RDF output identiﬁed by the same URI (2021) , thus eliminating re- 
dundant events (events with the same subject, property and object ). 
Furthermore, we skipped irrelevant events – i.e., events that are 
not considered in our ontology –f r o m being processed. Second, 
we use Header Dictionary Triples (HDT) ( Fernández et al., 2013 ) as 
a graph compression technique that provides a compact data struc- 
ture and binary serialization format for RDF. HDT keeps large graph 
data compressed and manageable while enabling query operations 
without prior decompression. We discuss our graph reduction and 
compression results in Section 8 . 
6.2. Threat detection & alerting 
Due to the uniform KG representation, the KRYSTAL framework 
allows to combine and integrate a variety of techniques for threat 
detection and alerting. We illustrate this by (i) transforming and 
14 https://rml.io/ 
7
