K. Kurniawan, A. Ekelhart, E. Kiesling et al. Computers & Security 121 (2022) 102828 
techniques and contextualize provenance data over both internal 
system knowledge and external cyber-security knowledge. Based 
on the KRYSTAL ontology, we provide a foundation for provenance 
and attack graph modeling in a uniﬁed framework. The ontology 
provides semantic interoperability and allows users to leverage 
community knowledge for tactical attack analysis. Furthermore, 
our framework introduces a declarative and modular architecture 
to overcome the inﬂexibility of monolithic prototypes; hence, it 
supports rapid development and integration of new approaches, 
lowering the barriers for rule development, reproducibility, and 
further research. 
To evaluate the ability of SPARQL to effectively express threat 
detection rules, we implemented several state of the art techniques 
including tag propagation, list:attenuation and decay, signature/rule- 
based detection and graph queries . We evaluated the feasibil- 
ity of our approach for threat detection and attack construc- 
tion through multiple attack scenarios from the well-established 
DARPA-TC dataset. The evaluation shows that our ontology-based 
RDF provenance graphs are scalable with respect to graph size and 
query complexity without sacriﬁcing graph reduction, compres- 
sion, and attack reconstruction performance. This makes it possi- 
ble to combine a variety of threat detection techniques, which im- 
proved the detection capabilities in our evaluation. For instance, 
we found that complementary rule-based threat detection identi- 
ﬁed threats which were missed by tag-propagation techniques. 
Finally, our framework facilitates linking to high-level attack 
patterns to establish a “kill-chain” of high-level attacker tactics, 
which results in a navigable and queryable provenance graph en- 
riched with security knowledge. This can help improve attack un- 
derstanding and situational awareness. 
As next steps in our research, we plan to integrate with mul- 
tiple large-scale heterogeneous log sources beyond audit log data 
and aim for performance optimization (e.g., for better exploration 
and visualization). Based on the possibility to combine detection 
techniques, we want to explore how alerts raised by one technique 
could automatically trigger analysis by other techniques for conﬁr- 
mation and additional information. Further research will also focus 
on exploring other threat detection approaches, including anomaly 
detection techniques, and integrating them into our framework. Fi- 
nally, we plan to adapt and evaluate the attack graph construction 
approach in different implementation settings such as in decentral- 
ized and distributed scenarios. 
Declaration of Competing Interest 
The authors declare that they have no known competing ﬁnan- 
cial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to 
inﬂuence the work reported in this paper. 
CRediT authorship contribution statement 
Kabul Kurniawan: Conceptualization, Methodology, Software, 
Investigation, Validation, Visualization, Writing – original draft. 
Andreas Ekelhart: Conceptualization, Writing –r e v i e w & editing. 
Elmar Kiesling: Conceptualization, Writing –r e v i e w & editing. 
Gerald Quirchmayr: Supervision. A Min Tjoa: Supervision. 
Acknowledgments 
This work has been supported by netidee SCIENCE and the Aus- 
trian Science Fund (FWF) under grant P30437-N31. The compe- 
tence center SBA Research (SBA-K1) is funded within the frame- 
work of COMET — Competence Centers for Excellent Technologies 
by BMVIT, BMDW, and the federal state of Vienna, managed by 
the FFG. Moreover, the ﬁnancial support by the Christian Doppler 
Research Association, the Austrian Federal Ministry for Digital and 
Economic Affairs and the National Foundation for Research, Tech- 
nology and Development is gratefully acknowledged (Christian- 
Doppler-Laboratory for Security and Quality Improvement in the 
Production System Lifecycle). 
Appendix 
Scenario 2 - Nginx backdoor w/ Drakon in-memory In this sce- 
nario our system detects several alarms on the provenance graph 
as shown on Fig. 12 . We performed backward-forward chaining 
with query federation to construct the attack graph together with 
its kill-chain phases. We successfully linked the generated attack 
graph to MITRE ATT&CK techniques such as Gather Victim Iden- 
tity Information (T1589), File and Directory Permissions Modiﬁcation 
Fig. 12. Scenario 2 ( Nginx backdoor w/ Drakon in-memory ). The attack begins with a vulnerable Nginx installed on a FreeBSD host that gets exploited by an attacker. The 
attacker sends a malformed HTTP request that results in downloading several malicious ﬁles on the local system. One of the ﬁles i.e. /tmp/pEja72mA then gets executed, 
which spawns a process pEja72mA . This process reads sensitive information /etc/passwd) and connects remotely via C&C to the attacker console. 
16
