Computers & Security 121 (2022) 102828 
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect 
Computers & Security 
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/cose 
KRYSTAL: Knowledge graph-based framework for tactical attack 
discovery in audit data 
Kabul Kurniawan a , c , ∗, Andreas Ekelhart b , d , Elmar Kiesling a , Gerald Quirchmayr c , 
A Min Tjoa e 
a Vienna University of Economics and Business, Welthandelsplatz 1, Vienna, Austria 
b SBA Research, Floragasse 7, Vienna, Austria 
c University of Vienna, Währinger Straße 29, Vienna, Austria 
d University of Vienna, Kolingasse 14-16, Vienna, Austria 
e Vienna University of Technology, Favoritenstraße 9-11, Vienna, Austria 
a r t i c l e i n f o 
Article history: 
Received 10 August 2021 
Revised 10 June 2022 
Accepted 3 July 2022 
Available online 8 July 2022 
Keywords: 
Attack graph construction 
Log analysis 
Knowledge graph 
Attack discovery 
Cybersecurity 
Information security 
a b s t r a c t 
Attack graph-based methods are a promising approach towards discovering attacks and various tech- 
niques have been proposed recently. A key limitation, however, is that approaches developed so far are 
monolithic in their architecture and heterogeneous in their internal models. The inﬂexible custom data 
models of existing prototypes and the implementation of rules in code rather than declarative languages 
on the one hand make it diﬃcult to combine, extend, and reuse techniques, and on the other hand hin- 
der reuse of security knowledge – including detection rules and threat intelligence. KRYSTAL tackles these 
challenges by providing a knowledge graph-based, modular framework for threat detection, attack graph 
and scenario reconstruction, and analysis based on RDF as a standard model for knowledge represen- 
tation. This approach provides query options that facilitate contextualization over internal and external 
background knowledge, as well as the integration of multiple detection techniques, including tag prop- 
agation, attack signatures, and graph queries. We implemented our framework in an openly available 
prototype and demonstrate its applicability on multiple scenarios of the DARPA Transparent Computing 
dataset. Our evaluation shows that the combination of different threat detection techniques within our 
framework improved detection capabilities. Furthermore, we ﬁnd that RDF provenance graphs are scal- 
able and can eﬃciently support a variety of threat detection techniques. 
©2 0 2 2 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. 
This is an open access article under the CC BY license ( http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/ ) 
1. Introduction 
In the face of complex cyber attacks, it is crucial to not only de- 
tect attacks as early as possible, but also to understand their con- 
text and implications in order to choose an appropriate response 
strategy. To protect themselves, organizations typically rely on de- 
fenses such as Intrusion Detection System. These systems are use- 
ful in that they can point to indicators of compromise and issues, 
but they also typically generate a large number of false positive 
alerts. To identify relevant alerts, it is necessary to investigate their 
context, which typically requires substantial manual effort and ex- 
pertise ( Hossain et al., 2017; Milajerdi et al., 2019b ). As the sheer 
∗ Corresponding author at: Vienna University of Economics and Business, 
Welthandelsplatz 1, Vienna, Austria. 
E-mail address: kabul.kurniawan@wu.ac.at (K. Kurniawan) . 
volume of low-level log data grows, manual analyses become in- 
creasingly infeasible. 
In this context, system-level provenance graphs, which rely on 
audit data represented in graph structures, have recently attracted 
considerable attention in the security research community as a 
promising tool with strong abstract expression ability and rela- 
tively high eﬃciency ( Li et al., 2021 ). Such provenance graphs rep- 
resent relationships between the control ﬂow and data ﬂow be- 
tween subjects (e.g., processes, threads) and objects (e.g., ﬁles, 
network sockets) in the system through a timestamped directed 
graph. Based on that, a large variety of techniques have been de- 
veloped to automatically detect and connect attack steps in such 
graphs. 1 
Motivating Example Figure 1 depicts the provenance graph of 
an exﬁltration attack carried out in the context of the DARPA 
1 cf. Li et al. (2021) for a recent survey. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2022.102828 
0167-4048/© 2022 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license ( http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/ )
