K. Kurniawan, A. Ekelhart, E. Kiesling et al. Computers & Security 121 (2022) 102828 
Fig. 6. Tag Propagation Example. 
Listing 3. Propagation rule for incoming socket connections. 
integrating established threat detection and alerting techniques (ii) 
incorporating a signature-based threat detection approach through 
the transformation of curated public rules (e.g. Sigma Rule), and 
(iii) link the identiﬁed attack pattern into high-level attack tech- 
nique and tactic (TTPs Mapping). Rather than hard-coding these 
mechanisms and developing them for a custom data structure, we 
show in the following how they can be implemented as stan- 
dard declarative SPARQL queries. Tag Propagation is a prominent 
method to establish event causality in the context of provenance 
graphs. It is based on a set of rules to assign tag values onto sys- 
tem object nodes (i.e., process, ﬁle, socket, etc.) upon interaction 
between them ( Hossain et al., 2017 ). In order to trace the impact of 
malicious events, tags and values will be propagated sequentially 
through a provenance graph to other system objects if a given tag 
propagation rule is satisﬁed. 
Figure 6 illustrates tag propagation with an example. It 
introduces integrity and conﬁdentiality tags to identify the 
suspicion level of a node. We express propagation rules 
Hossain et al. (2020) as SPARQL queries processed by our tag prop- 
agation component. Listing 3 shows the query matching the illus- 
tration in Fig. 6 . It checks if a socket connection ( < socket > ) 
is received by ( :isReceivedBy ) a process ( < process > ) and 
then compares the minimum ( afn:min ) integrity tag value 
( :intTag ) of the < socket > (identiﬁed by ?oit variable) and 
< process > (identiﬁed by ?sit variable). 15 If ?oit is not the 
same as ?sit , it updates 16 ?sit with the new value (identiﬁed 
by the ?nit variable). 
Attenuation & Decay are techniques to tackle the “dependence 
explosion” problem ( Hossain et al., 2017 ), which occurs when a 
node in the provenance graph interacts with a large number of sys- 
tem objects, causing a large number of benign events to be ﬂagged 
as being part of an attack ( Hossain et al., 2020 ). This leads to a 
large number of false-positive alerts, making it diﬃcult to identify 
relevant alerts. Tag attenuation ( Hossain et al., 2020 ) aims to alle- 
15 System objects with integrity scores in the interval [0 . 0 − 0 . 5 | are considered 
suspicious and scores in the interval [0 . 5 − 1 . 0] are considered benign. 
16 SPARQL uses DELETE and INSERT to perform update operations on triple(s); 
cf. https://www.w3.org/TR/sparql11-update/ 
Listing 4. Attenuation rule for a benign write propagation. 
viate this issue by considering objects imperfect intermediaries for 
propagating malicious behavior through a benign process. In the 
previous example (cf. Fig. 6 ), for instance, the low integrity process 
p 1 writes a ﬁle f 1 , lowering its integrity. To avoid excessive propa- 
gation to other objects from there, the integrity and conﬁdentiality 
tags of a benign subject get attenuated before they propagate to 
another benign object. This can be achieved by applying an addi- 
tive factor af to the original tag value. 
Tag decay is based on the assumption that in case a benign 
subject gets compromised and becomes suspicious, it will do so 
soon after consuming a suspicious input (e.g., read low integrity 
ﬁle) ( Hossain et al., 2020 ). Consequently, this technique gradually 
lifts the score of the low integrity subject and limits benign ob- 
jects from being propagated and ﬂagged as suspicious, particularly 
for long-running processes. 
Listing 4 illustrates how the KRYSTAL framework enables declar- 
ative deﬁnitions of such rules using SPARQL queries. It shows an 
example of an attenuation rule for a benign write propagation that 
checks for a < process > that :writes a conﬁdential < file > . 
The rule gradually increments the conﬁdentiality tag ( :confTag ) 
value ( ?sct ) of processes. 
Provenance-Based Alerting Provenance-based alerting policies 
detect attacks based on the simultaneous fulﬁllment of sev- 
eral conditions in the provenance graph. These conditions (cf. 
Hossain et al., 2020 ) take data integrity tags as well as informa- 
tion associated with nodes (e.g., permissions, users) into account. 
For example, a suspicious ﬁle execution can be detected under the 
following alert policy: 
• a ﬁle f is executed by a process p , 
• f has a low integrity tag value ( < 0.5) and p is benign (integrity 
> = 0.5). 
The KRYSTAL framework facilitates provenance-based alerting by 
expressing alert policies as SPARQL queries and matching them 
against the provenance log graph. Listing 5 provides an exam- 
ple of an alerting policy for suspicious ﬁle execution. The query 
matches a ﬁle ( ?file ) with a low integrity value that has been 
executed by a benign process. Speciﬁcally, ﬁles with a tag value 
8
