===== PAGE 001 =====
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SOFTWARE ENGINEERING, VOL. 50, NO. 9, SEPTEMBER 2024
2219
Evaluating SZZ Implementations: An Empirical
Study on the Linux Kernel
Yunbo Lyu
, Hong Jin Kang
, Ratnadira Widyasari
, Graduate Student Member, IEEE, Julia Lawall
, and
David Lo
, Fellow, IEEE
Abstract—The SZZ algorithm is used to connect bug-ﬁxing
commits to the earlier commits that introduced bugs. This
algorithm has many applications and many variants have been
devised. However, there are some types of commits that cannot
be traced by the SZZ algorithm, referred to as “ghost commits”.
The evaluation of how these ghost commits impact the SZZ
implementations remains limited. Moreover, these implemen-
tations have been evaluated on datasets created by software
engineering researchers from information in bug trackers and
version controlled histories. Since Oct 2013, the Linux kernel
developers have started labelling bug-ﬁxing patches with the
commit identiﬁers of the corresponding bug-inducing commit(s)
as a standard practice. As of v6.1-rc5, 76,046 pairs of bug-ﬁxing
patches and bug-inducing commits are available. This provides
a unique opportunity to evaluate the SZZ algorithm on a large
dataset that has been created and reviewed by project developers,
entirely independently of the biases of software engineering
researchers. In this paper, we apply six SZZ implementations to
76,046 pairs of bug-ﬁxing patches and bug-introducing commits
from the Linux kernel. Our ﬁndings reveal that SZZ algorithms
experience a more signiﬁcant decline in recall on our dataset
(↓13.8%) as compared to prior ﬁndings reported by Rosa
et al., and the disparities between the individual SZZ algorithms
diminish. Moreover, we ﬁnd that 17.47% of bug-ﬁxing commits
are ghost commits. Finally, we propose Tracing-Commit SZZ
(TC-SZZ), that traces all commits in the change history of lines
modiﬁed or deleted in bug-ﬁxing commits. Applying TC-SZZ to
all failure cases, excluding ghost commits, we found that TC-
SZZ could identify 17.7% of them. Our further analysis based
on git log found that 34.6% of bug-inducing commits were in the
function history, 27.5% in the ﬁle history (but not in the function
history), and 37.9% not in the ﬁle history. We further evaluated
the effectiveness of ChatGPT in boosting the SZZ algorithm’s
ability to identify bug-inducing commits in the function history,
in the ﬁle history and not in the ﬁle history.
Index
Terms—SZZ,
defect
prediction,
empirical
study,
ChatGPT.
Manuscript received 5 August 2023; revised 6 May 2024; accepted
9 May 2024. Date of publication 29 May 2024; date of current version
19 September 2024. This work was supported by the National Research
Foundation, under its Investigatorship Grant NRF-NRFI08-2022-0002. Rec-
ommended for acceptance by J. Wang. (Corresponding author: Yunbo Lyu.)
Yunbo Lyu, Ratnadira Widyasari, and David Lo are with the School
of Computing and Information Systems, Singapore Management Univer-
sity, Singapore 178902 (e-mail: yunbolyu@smu.edu.sg; ratnadiraw.2020@
phdcs.smu.edu.sg; davidlo@smu.edu.sg).
Hong Jin Kang is with the University of California, Los Angeles, CA 90095
USA (e-mail: hjkang@g.ucla.edu)
Julia Lawall is with Inria-Paris, 75013 Paris, France (e-mail: julia.lawall@
inria.fr).
Digital Object Identiﬁer 10.1109/TSE.2024.3406718
I. INTRODUCTION
I
N MSR 2005, ´Sliwerski, Zimmermann, and Zeller intro-
duced an approach to identifying bug-inducing commits in
a software code base [1]. Their approach, subsequently referred
to as the SZZ algorithm [2], ﬁrst identiﬁes bug-ﬁxing commits
by correlating commits to reports in a bug tracker. It then uses
the history mechanism of the version control-system to map
each line of code removed by the bug ﬁx to the commit that
most recently added or modiﬁed that line. Finally, the resulting
set of commits is ﬁltered to remove those that postdate the bug
report, unless there is evidence that the commit represents a
partial ﬁx or the commit is a bug-introducing commit for some
other bug-ﬁxing commit. The SZZ algorithm has been used in
defect prediction techniques [3], [4], [5], [6], [7], and to analyze
how bugs are born [8], [9], [10], [11].
Despite the success and inﬂuence of the SZZ algorithm, over
the years, researchers have identiﬁed a number of weaknesses
in its strategy for identifying bug-inducing commits. For ex-
ample, the SZZ algorithm may incorrectly ﬂag non-semantic
source code (e.g., formatting changes) [2], meta-changes (e.g.,
branch changes) [12], and refactoring changes [13], [14] as bug-
inducing. Several algorithm reﬁnements have been proposed,
such as excluding formatting and cosmetic changes [2], ex-
cluding changes that represent version-control system metadata
(e.g., merge commits) [12], excluding changes that perform
refactorings [13], [14], excluding non-executable changes [15],
and combining the syntactic approach proposed by SZZ with
analysis of changes in dependencies, including potentially in-
terprocedural analysis [16].
Recently, attention has turned to the notion of a ghost commit
[17]. As the SZZ algorithm relies on connecting the removed
lines in the bug-ﬁxing commit to the added lines in the bug-
inducing commit, it is intrinsically unable to provide results for
bug-ﬁxing commits that have no removed lines (referred to as
Remove Mapping Ghost), and to detect bug-inducing commits
that have no added lines (referred to as Add Mapping Ghost).
The SZZ algorithm furthermore cannot detect bug-inducing
commits that are discarded due to the various ﬁltering strategies
(referred to as Filtering Ghost), such as commits dated after the
bug report, commits that perform refactoring, or commits that
address multiple purposes (i.e., tangled commits [18]). Some
further variants have been proposed to mitigate these issues.
Speciﬁcally, to address failures from Remove Mapping Ghost,
A-SZZ [19] and Rezk et al.’s [12] method were proposed. To
0098-5589 © 2024 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:34:02 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


===== PAGE 002 =====
2220
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SOFTWARE ENGINEERING, VOL. 50, NO. 9, SEPTEMBER 2024
address failures from Filtering Ghosts, Da Costa et al. [12]
propose a framework to ﬁlter out suspicious commits.
Motivation: While there has been extensive research over
two decades aiming to improve the precision of the SZZ algo-
rithm [2], [12], [13], [14], [15], [16], discussions on enhancing
recall are relatively limited. This analysis gap is critical because
overlooking certain buggy patterns can impact downstream
tasks dependent on this algorithm, such as defect prediction [5],
[6], [11], [20], [21], [22], [23], [24] and the analysis of factors
related to software quality [9], [10], [11], [25], [26], [27]. The
closest work is that of Sahal et al. [19] and Rezk et al. [17], who
use a syntax-based method [19] and context-aware data ﬂow
analysis [17] to address Remove Mapping Ghosts. However,
their work only partially addresses one possible scenario where
SZZ fails to identify bug-inducing commits. Moreover, there is
a lack of comprehensive examination of the full range of sce-
narios where the SZZ algorithm falls short, such as cases where
ﬁles are not shared between the bug-inducing and bug-ﬁxing
commits. Therefore, our work aims to present a whole picture
of the recall challenges faced by all current SZZ algorithms.
The wide use of the SZZ algorithm and the introduction of its
many variants raises the need to evaluate the algorithms fairly.
The original SZZ lacked an empirical evaluation [1], while vari-
ants of SZZ were manually assessed by the authors themselves,
rather than by domain experts. As noted by da Costa et al. [12]
and Rosa et al. [28], due to a lack of developer-labeled data,
evaluations of SZZ variants mostly rely on researchers’ manual
analysis of small datasets [1], [2], [14], [15], [16]. As the
researchers are not developers of the projects being analyzed,
their judgement on bug-introducing commits may not always be
correct. The cost of manual analysis is also overwhelming. To
avoid the need for manual analysis, while at the same time ben-
eﬁting from the expertise of project developers, Rosa et al. [28]
proposed an automation-based methodology to build a high-
quality dataset from commits where the log message indicates
both that the commit ﬁxes a bug and the identity of the bug-
inducing commit. Still, the resulting dataset only takes a few
commits from each of many projects, which might not provide
a realistic view. For instance, in Rosa et al.’s dataset, there exist
just three bug-ﬁxing commits from FFmpeg despite FFmpeg
having over a hundred thousand commits.
There does exist, however, a large, developer-created dataset
linking bug-ﬁxing commits to the corresponding bug-inducing
commits, as is needed to evaluate SZZ algorithms. Since
October 2013, Linux kernel developers have been annotating
bug-ﬁxing patches with the keyword “Fixes:” followed by the
commit id of the bug-inducing commit and the subject-line of
the corresponding log message. Starting with fewer than 200
such annotated commits in 2013, the practice has steadily grown
over the years, until reaching a steady state of 11-13K such
commits per year, since 2019. Kernel developers include Fixes:
annotations in their submitted patches, and the annotations are
subject to the kernel code-review process. This dataset intro-
duces the possibility of evaluating the SZZ algorithms at a large
scale, and accurately measuring the impact of ghost commits.
Main Findings: In this paper, we collect a dataset of com-
mits from the Linux kernel, named the Linux Kernel Fixing
Commits (KFC) dataset. The KFC dataset has more than 76K
“Fixes:” commits over the last nearly 10 years of Linux kernel
development to evaluate the SZZ algorithm and ﬁve of its vari-
ants. We ﬁnd that all of the considered algorithms have recall
and precision between 0.40 and 0.60, with some algorithms
having higher recall, while others have higher precision, leading
to an F1 score in all cases of around 0.50. The average recall for
all SZZ algorithms evaluated in our dataset is 13.8% lower than
that observed by Rosa et al. on their dataset, and the differences
between individual SZZ algorithms are less pronounced.
Using the KFC dataset, we can additionally assess previous
work on the frequency of ghost commits. Rezk et al. [17] have
done a large scale study of the prevalence of ghost commits,
focusing on 14 Apache projects. They found a median rate of
7.64% of occurrences of Remove Mapping Ghost (bug-ﬁxing
commits that have no removed lines, and thus have no changed
lines to map back to bug-inducing commits) over the considered
projects. In the Linux Kernel dataset, we ﬁnd a much higher
percentage, 17.65%. We also ﬁnd a higher percentage than Rezk
et al. of occurrences of Add Mapping Ghost (commits over the
whole Linux commit history that have no added lines), with a
rate of 5.3% for the Linux kernel as compared to a median of
2.68% for the applications in Rezk et al.’s dataset. Indeed, Rezk
et al. lack a ground truth for the set of bug-inducing commits,
and thus compute the rate of all commits that contain no added
code as compared to the complete set of commits. In the case of
the Linux kernel, we can also assess the rate of Add Mapping
Ghost commits among the bug-inducing commits labelled by
the developer. We ﬁnd that Add Mapping Ghost bug-inducing
commits account for only 0.7% of all bug-inducing commits
(585 out of 79649). Thus, the results for the Linux kernel show
that the ﬁndings of Rezk et al. across the entire code history do
not reﬂect the actual rate at which commits that have no added
lines are bug-inducing commits.
We furthermore ﬁnd that ghost commits are not the only rea-
son for failures (lower recall) of the SZZ algorithms. Indeed, we
ﬁnd that the bug-inducing commit is often not the most recent
previous commit on any of the lines changed by the bug-ﬁxing
commit. And that over 13% of bug-inducing commits share
no ﬁles in common with the subsequent bug-ﬁxing commits.
The ﬁles modiﬁed in the cross-ﬁle bug-inducing commits are
present in the version control history but are different from the
ﬁles in the bug-ﬁxing commits. An example of a cross-ﬁle bug-
ﬁxing commit is commit 79b591c, which does not share any
ﬁle with its bug-inducing commit. The bug-inducing commit
modiﬁed a constant shared between multiple ﬁles, requiring a
necessary unit conversion to be applied in each ﬁle that uses the
constant. The bug was introduced as the bug-inducing commit
neglected to update a relevant ﬁle. The correct unit conversion
in this ﬁle was later introduced in the bug-ﬁxing commit. The
SZZ algorithms are founded on the assumption that “a bug-
inducing change adds lines that are later removed by a ﬁx.” In
the context of the git version control system, this means that
SZZ algorithms use the git blame command just once for each
removed line to identify the most recent change. To increase
the recall, admittedly at the expense of precision, we examine
whether bug-inducing commits might not always be in the most
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:34:02 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


===== PAGE 003 =====
LYU et al.: EVALUATING SZZ IMPLEMENTATIONS
2221
Fig. 1.
The motivating example of Tracing-Commit SZZ.
recent change, but are rather concealed deeper in the change
history.
To facilitate this exploration, we propose the Tracing-
Commit SZZ (TC-SZZ) algorithm, which iteratively uses git
blame until the initial commit is located, and then considers
all commits in the change history as potential bug-inducing
commits. Unlike all previous SZZ variants which identify only
a single bug-inducing commit for a deleted line. This favors
recall, but may increase the number of false positives as it
returns commits in the line’s change history that are not relevant
to the bug. For example, as shown in Fig. 1, TC-SZZ returns
all ﬁve commits in a line’s change history as potentially bug-
inducing commits, successfully identifying commit 40747f as
the bug-inducing commit. In contrast, B-SZZ only considers
the previous commit. Applying TC-SZZ to the 17,552 cases
that are not detected by the SZZ algorithms but do not in-
volve ghost commits revealed that 3,115 out of the 17,552
failure cases (17.7%) are located in the change history and
not the most recent change. Algorithms that skip over refac-
toring changes have the potential to identify such bug intro-
ducing commits more accurately, but refactoring detection is
language speciﬁc, and such approaches have only been devel-
oped for Java [29], [30], while the Linux kernel is entirely
C code.
For the remaining 14,437 bug-ﬁxing commits, 34.6% of the
failure cases are found in the function history but not in the
history of the lines that are changed by the bug-ﬁxing commit.
This means that the bug-inducing commit can be identiﬁed
by applying git log -L on the changed functions (referred to
as Function-Log Detection). For detailed examples, refer to
Section VI-C. Additionally, 27.5% of failure are found in the ﬁle
history but not in the history of the changed functions in that ﬁle.
Here, the bug-inducing commit can be found by applying git
log to the changed ﬁles (referred to as Within-File Detection).
Finally, 37.9% of failure are in the history of a ﬁle other than
the changed ﬁles (referred to as Cross-File Detection).
Experiments with ChatGPT: For the Function-Log De-
tection, Within-File Detection, and Cross-File Detection cases,
where the bug-inducing commit is not in the history of the
lines changed by the bug-ﬁxing commit, we experiment with
ChatGPT. As ChatGPT has exhibited potential in addressing
Software Engineering tasks [31], [32], we consider whether
ChatGPT, speciﬁcally the GPT-4 version, can help SZZ algo-
rithms identify bug-inducing commits for these failure cases.
Speciﬁcally, we use the commit log subject and body of the bug-
ﬁxing commit, as well as all of the changed function’s code,
as input for ChatGPT. For Within-File Detection and Cross-
File Detection, we leverage ChatGPT to help locate the bug-
inducing function or ﬁle based on the bug-ﬁxing commit, since
the function or ﬁle responsible for the bug is not known from
the bug-ﬁxing commits. Our aim is for ChatGPT to pinpoint
the speciﬁc line of code in the function that may have induced
the bug and thus caused the bug-ﬁxing commit. Given this
line of code, we can then apply an iterated git blame to it
to identify the bug-inducing commits. On 375 samples, for
identifying bug-inducing commits Function-Blame Detection
(a subcategory of Function-Log Detection, using git blame once
for identifying the bug-inducing commit), ChatGPT showed
increased efﬁcacy in recall (with a precision of 0.28, recall
of 0.62, and F1 of 0.39). However, when it came to dealing
with failure cases both in and out of the ﬁle history, ChatGPT’s
performance was notably less successful. This is partly due to
the challenge of a general-purpose Large Language Model in
inferring function names or ﬁles not explicitly referenced in the
bug-ﬁxing commit.
Overview: In summary, our paper makes the following
contributions:
• Dataset Creation. We identify the Linux kernel as a data
source and collect a developer annotated and validated
dataset of over 76K bug-ﬁxing commits, which we have
made publicly available.1
• Evaluation. We conduct a comprehensive evaluation of
six SZZ algorithms, revealing hidden dangers in real-world
usage scenarios and analyzing the impact of ghost commits
on the Linux kernel dataset.
• Further Analysis. We show that by utilizing TC-SZZ, we
can address 17.7% of the failure cases. We classiﬁed the
remaining failure situations as Function-Log Detection,
Within-File Detection, and Cross-File Detection.
• ChatGPT Efﬁcacy Assessment. We investigate the efﬁ-
cacy of ChatGPT in identifying bug-inducing commits in
the three failure situations.
The rest of this paper is organized as follows. In Section II,
we discuss the background and related work of our study.
In Section III, we discuss how we build the dataset of bug-
inducing commits. Section IV presents the design of our study.
Section V introduces TC-SZZ. In Section VI, we show the eval-
uation results and answer our research questions. In Section VII,
we explore the potential of ChatGPT to identify bug-inducing
commits. Section VIII discusses the reason of SZZ failures.
We discuss the threats to validity in Section IX. Finally, we
draw the conclusions of our work and present future directions
in Section X.
1https://doi.org/10.6084/m9.ﬁgshare.23889792.v2
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:34:02 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
