===== PAGE 006 =====
2224
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SOFTWARE ENGINEERING, VOL. 50, NO. 9, SEPTEMBER 2024
TABLE I
DATASETS PREVIOUSLY USED FOR EVALUATING THE SZZ ALGORITHM.
B-SZZ IS INDICATED AS //, AS THE AUTHOR DID NOT USE A DATASET
FOR EVALUATION. ‘‘RE.’’ MEANS THE DATASET IS ANNOTATED BY
RESEARCHERS. ‘‘DEV.’’ MEANS THE DATASET IS ANNOTATED
BY DEVELOPERS
Approach / Dataset
#Dataset type
#Projects
#Bug Fixes
B-SZZ [1]
//
//
//
AG-SZZ [2]
Manually (re.)
2
301
DJ-SZZ [15]
Manually (re.)
1
25
L-SZZ & R-SZZ [16]
Manually (re.)
3
174
MA-SZZ [12]
Auto metrics
10
2,637
RA-SZZ [13]
Manually (re.)
10
365
RA-SZZ∗[14]
Manually (re.)
10
365
Rosa’s Dataset [28]
Auto (dev.)
1,625
1,930
of the defect prediction model relies heavily on the quality of
the dataset labeled by the SZZ algorithm [7]. A lot of mislabeled
commits in the dataset will seriously affect the model prediction
results, which highlights the importance of the accuracy of the
SZZ algorithm.
The SZZ algorithm is also used to analyze factors related
to software quality [9], [10], [11], [25], [26], [27]. A study
by Eyolfson et al. [25] discusses the correlation between the
time-based factors of a commit (such as the commit’s time of
day, day of the week, and commit frequency) and the commit’s
bugginess. Izquierdo-Cortázar et al. [27] and Tufano et al. [9]
explore the correlation between the developer’s experience and
the tendency to induce defects.
SZZ has also been used to identify bug-inducing commits
at the pull request level in studies by Petrulio et al. [46] and
Bludau et al. [47]. Furthermore, SZZ has been employed to
determine the correct version information about vulnerable soft-
ware within the National Vulnerability Database [48]. Given the
importance and widespread use of SZZ, we aim to evaluate its
performance in our study.
III. CONSTRUCTING A DATASET OF BUG-INDUCING COMMITS
INFORMED BY DEVELOPERS
Evaluating the accuracy of the SZZ algorithm and its vari-
ants requires a dataset of bug-ﬁxing commits accompanied in
each case by the set of commits that introduced the ﬁxed bug.
´sliwerski, Zimmermann, and Zeller [1] proposed experiments
based on ECLIPSE and MOZILLA in which bug-ﬁxing com-
mits were chosen based on their references to a bug tracker;
no evaluation was made of the accuracy of the corresponding
collected bug-inducing commits. Subsequent SZZ variants were
mostly evaluated using small, manually-validated datasets, as
shown in Table I.
A. The Dataset of Rosa et al.
In 2021, Rosa et al. [28] proposed a new methodology to
build a dataset for evaluating SZZ variants based on the obser-
vation that the log messages of some commits both contain a
statement that the commit is ﬁxing a bug and explicitly identify
the commit that introduced the bug that is being ﬁxed. For
example, they have found the message “THRIFT-4513: ﬁx bug
in comparator introduced by e58f75d” in the commit a8a97bd
in the project apache/thrift.5 The presence of such messages
raises the possibility of creating a large-scale dataset fully auto-
matically, relying on the expertise of project developers to map
bug-ﬁxing commits to the corresponding set of bug-introducing
commits. Nevertheless, they did not identify a standardized
means of providing bug-ﬁxing and bug-introducing commit in-
formation neither across projects nor within projects. Thus, they
proposed to mine such information in commit logs using natural
language processing (NLP) techniques, followed by manual
veriﬁcation. Using their approach, they created a dataset of
1,930 bug-ﬁxing commits from 1,625 software projects written
in a variety of programming languages. Using the resulting
dataset, they compare the precision, recall, and F-measure of
nine SZZ variants, and study the impact of dropping reported
bug-inducing commits that postdate the associated entry in the
bug tracker.
While the NLP-based approach of Rosa et al. [28] made
it possible to obtain a large dataset, exploiting developer
knowledge, researchers have identiﬁed some weaknesses in
their results. The dataset remains small, containing 1,930 bug-
ﬁxing commits from 19,603,736 commits collected on GitHub,
amounting to 0.001% of the total commits collected. While not
all commits on GitHub are ﬁxes or introduce bugs, previous
studies [49], [50] have highlighted that 55% to 95% of the
total cost of software development is devoted to maintenance.
Therefore, it is likely that the 1,930 commits collected in the
dataset is a vast underestimation of the actual number of bug
ﬁxes. And as there are on average only 1.2 commits per project,
the collected commits may not be representative of the full
scope of issues that arise in each project’s development.
B. A Dataset Extracted From the Development History of the
Linux kernel
The Linux kernel was ﬁrst released in 1991 and has grown to
23 MLOC as of the release of Linux v6.0 in October 2022. The
Linux kernel has been developed using git since April 2005.
Prior to October 2013, Linux kernel developers sporadically
included in their commit log messages comments beginning
with Fixes: followed by a reference to Bugzilla or some other
URL. Starting with the commit 629c66a22c216 from security
researcher Kees Cook on October 24, 2013, the Linux kernel
developer community has mostly settled on a strict format
for bug-ﬁx information. This format consists of one or more
lines starting with the keyword Fixes:, each followed by the
commit id of the bug-introducing commit, followed by the
ﬁrst line of the commit log message of the bug-introducing
commit in parentheses. This format is encouraged by the Linux
kernel documentation7 and by the Linux kernel “linting” tool
checkpatch.8
5https://github.com/apache/thrift/commit/a8a97bde9eeada5ce0571ea1650b1
8f3ebc50e42
6https://github.com/torvalds/linux/commit/629c66a22c21b692b6e58b9c1d8
fa56a60ccb52d
7https://www.kernel.org/doc/html/v4.9/kernel-documentation.html
8https://docs.kernel.org/dev-tools/checkpatch.html
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:34:02 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


===== PAGE 007 =====
LYU et al.: EVALUATING SZZ IMPLEMENTATIONS
2225
Using git, we collect 78,384 potential bug-ﬁxing com-
mits with Fixes:. We further mine all bug-inducing com-
mits in each bug-ﬁxing commit. In the ﬁrst step, we use
[0-9a-f]{7,40} to ﬁnd the partial commit IDs (7-40 digits)
of potential bug-inducing commits. We exclude partial com-
mit IDs with fewer than seven characters to prevent ambi-
guity. In the second step, we search for the partial commit
IDs in the list of actual complete commit IDs in the repos-
itory. If the partial commit ID can be found anywhere as
a substring of a complete commit ID, we return the com-
plete commit ID as the bug-inducing commit. To investi-
gate the number of false positives in this step, we compare
our results with those obtained using the git rev-parse com-
mand, which returns the full hash from a partial commit ID.9
As a result of this comparative analysis (of 104 cases), we
observed two main issues that account for the differences
between our method and the git rev-parse command: (1) Over-
lapping Partial Commit IDs: In certain instances, a par-
tial commit ID is shared by multiple complete commit IDs,
leading to false positives. We manually veriﬁed such cases
and corrected 51. (2) Typos in Commit IDs: We found
that the remaining 55 cases were the result of typos in com-
mit IDs. Occasionally, commit IDs in the Linux kernel are
incorrect due to typos, such as missing characters, which
prevents git rev-parse from identifying the correct commit.
For example, the partial commit ID af4df655040 should ac-
tually be 3af4df655040, making git rev-parse unable to ﬁnd
3af4df65504088e9a7d20c0251e1016e521ad4fc. Searching for
partial commit IDs in the list accurately identiﬁed 55 of 56
cases. We encountered one instance where the commit did not
belong to any branch in the repository, being part of a fork
outside the repository. In the last step, we collect all the potential
bug-ﬁxing commits for which we can ﬁnd at least one bug-
inducing commit into the Bug-ﬁxing Commit Dataset. We
then collect those commits for which we cannot ﬁnd any bug-
inducing commits into the CSV ﬁle included in the replica-
tion package.
Our resulting Bug-ﬁxing Commit Dataset contains 76,046
commits from between Oct 24, 2013 and Nov 20, 2022 that
contain one or more properly formatted Fixes: annotations. The
Linux kernel does not have an associated bug tracker through
which we can validate that the annotated commits are ﬁxing
bugs. Nevertheless, the Fixes: annotation has, like the rest of
the commit, been subject to the Linux kernel review process.
Furthermore, we ﬁnd that over 99% of the Fixes: annotations
refer to existing commits.
We name our newly collected dataset KFC (Linux Kernel
Bug-Fixing Commits). KFC contains a one-to-many relation-
ship between bug-inducing commits and bug-ﬁxing commits,
as a single bug-inducing commit can lead to multiple future
bug-ﬁxing commits. Conversely, there is also a many-to-one
relationship, where a single bug-ﬁxing commit may be the result
of multiple bug-inducing commits.
9https://git-scm.com/docs/git-rev-parse
C. Veriﬁcation of the Dataset
To verify the quality of our dataset, we conduct a manual
analysis on a subset of the KFC dataset. This analysis aims to
conﬁrm that the “Fixes:” ﬁeld is indeed used in practice to point
to the cause of the bug, rather than mistakenly pointing to the
initial implementation of related functionalities.
In this study, we followed four steps to validate the subset of
the KFC dataset:
(i) Sampling: The complete KFC dataset includes 76,046
bug-ﬁxing commits. We selected a random sample of 383
cases to provide a statistically signiﬁcant representation,
aiming for a 95% conﬁdence level with a 5% margin of
error, according to standard sample size calculations.10
(ii) Preparation: Three annotators initially discussed and re-
ﬁned their approach to ensure consistent labeling, based
on an examination of a preliminary set of examples. This
led to the creation of a comprehensive set of labeling
guidelines.
(iii) Labeling: Following these guidelines, the dataset was
then labeled. One annotator was responsible for labeling
all 383 cases, while the other two split the complete set,
each labeling either 191 or 192 cases.
(iv) Discussion: Upon completion of labeling, the annotators
met to discuss and resolve all discrepancies.
After the preparation step, six categories were established
for the labeling process: (1) “Yes”: The bug-inducing commit
clearly points to the cause of the bug. (2) “Affected by other
changes”: External modiﬁcations led to the emergence of the
bug. (3) “Partial ﬁx”: An intermediate commit attempted to ﬁx
the bug but did not completely succeed. (4) “Introducing a new
function”: The commit introduced new functionality that was
later involved in a bug, but was not directly the cause. (5) “No”:
The bug-inducing commit does not point to the cause of the bug
and does not ﬁt into categories (2)-(4). Annotators are required
to mark the reasoning behind this classiﬁcation. (6) “Not sure”:
The annotator could not determine whether the bug-inducing
commit is related to the cause of the bug and is instructed to
mark the reasons for this uncertainty.
After the Labeling and Discussion steps, we found that 81%
(317 out of 383) of the sample cases fell into the “Yes” cate-
gory. Additionally, classiﬁcations for the remaining cases were
distributed as follows: 4% (15 out of 383) were categorized as
“Introducing a new function,” 2% (9 out of 383) as “Affected
by other changes,” and 3% (11 out of 383) as “Partial ﬁx.”
A further 2% (9 out of 383) of cases were labeled as “No,”
as the annotators could not discern a relationship between the
bug-ﬁxing and bug-inducing commits. Lastly, 7% (26 out of
383) of the cases were tagged as “Not sure,” due to the anno-
tators’ lack of expertise in the Linux kernel, which prevented
them from making judgments. Despite a small percentage of
cases not directly representing the cause of the bug, the vast
majority of the dataset accurately reﬂects the intended use of the
“Fixes:” ﬁeld.
10https://www.surveymonkey.com/mp/sample-size-calculator
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:34:02 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


===== PAGE 008 =====
2226
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SOFTWARE ENGINEERING, VOL. 50, NO. 9, SEPTEMBER 2024
IV. STUDY DESIGN
The purpose of this study is to empirically evaluate the var-
ious implementations of the SZZ algorithm on the currently
largest dataset for SZZ evaluation and to investigate patterns
that cannot be identiﬁed by SZZ (i.e., how to improve the recall
of the SZZ algorithms), particularly Ghost Commits. To achieve
these goals, we formulate three research questions:
RQ1: How well do the different variants of SZZ perform
in identifying bug-inducing changes?
In our ﬁrst research question, we aim to examine the per-
formance of different SZZ variants on our dataset relative to
a previous study by Rosa et al. [28]. Our study involves a
dataset with more bug-ﬁxing commits than in previous studies.
Evaluating SZZ is crucial to ascertain if the prior studies’claims
remain valid in an updated and more comprehensive dataset
from a complete software project.
RQ2: What is the impact of Ghost Commits on the
behavior of SZZ in a real software project?
In our second research question, we aim to explore the effects
of ghost commits on the use of SZZ variants in a real software
project, We divide RQ2 into two speciﬁc questions: (1) How
frequently do ghost commits (Remove Mapping Ghost as bug-
ﬁxing commits, Add Mapping Ghost as bug-inducing commits)
occur? (2) How do ghost commits impact the SZZ algorithms?
RQ3: What other situations, besides Ghost Commits,
are undetectable by SZZ algorithms? In our ﬁnal research
question, we aim to identify additional situations where the SZZ
algorithms fail, apart from the Ghost Commit situation. Given
that SZZ algorithms are founded on the assumption that “a bug-
inducing change adds lines that are later removed by a ﬁx,”
we address two speciﬁc questions within RQ3: (1) Do all fail-
ure cases, besides Ghost Commits, adhere to this assumption?
(2) Beyond the previously studied situation, what other situa-
tions prevent SZZ from successfully identifying bug-inducing
commits?
A. Algorithm Selection & Data Collection
We conduct experiments on several variants of the SZZ al-
gorithm. Speciﬁcally, we adapt the main variants from the prior
study by Rosa et al. [28] to run on our dataset. Of these, we do
not use SZZ Unleashed since our commits are not associated
with an issue tracker; thus there is no issue date. We do not
use OpenSZZ since it needs a Jira URL as input. RA-SZZ∗
only works on Java as Refactoring Miner [30] can only detect
refactoring operations in Java ﬁles. Therefore we do not use
RA-SZZ∗because the Linux kernel is a C-based project. In
summary, we use B-SZZ, AG-SZZ, L-SZZ, R-SZZ, MA-SZZ,
and PyDriller (SZZ@PYD). We used the KFC dataset, featur-
ing the complete set of 76,046 Fixes: annotated bug-ﬁxes.
B. Data Analysis
Given the set of bug-inducing commits predicted by the
tested SZZ algorithms and the collected dataset, we evaluate
the accuracy of the tested SZZ algorithms using recall and
precision, two well-known Information Retrieval metrics [51].
We also use F1 score [52], which calculates the harmonic
mean of recall and precision. These metrics have been used
in previous studies to evaluate SZZ performance [28], [46].
The metrics for a bug-ﬁxing commits are deﬁned as follows,
where correctci is the ground truth of bug-ﬁxing commit ci,
i.e., the bug-inducing commits annotated by the original Linux
kernel developer, identiﬁedci is the bug-inducing commits of
bug-ﬁxing commit ci identiﬁed by the SZZ algorithms, and N
is the total number of bug-ﬁxing commits:
recall = 1
N
N

ci=1
|correctci ∩identiﬁedci|
|correctci|
precision = 1
N
N

ci=1
|correctci ∩identiﬁedci|
|identiﬁedci|
cF1 = 2 · recall × precision
recall + precision
We also analyze the complementarity of the SZZ variants
following previous work [28]. Given the set of evaluated SZZ
variants SZZ eval = {v1, v2, . . . , vn}, we compute their comple-
mentarity using the following metrics for each vi [53]:
correctvi∩vj = |correctvi ∩correctvj|
|correctvi ∪correctvj|
correctvi\(SZZ exp\vi) = |correctvi \ correct(SZZ exp\vi)|
|correctvi ∪correct(SZZ exp\vi)|
correctvi denotes the set of correct bug-inducing commits
predicted by the SZZ algorithm vi. correct(SZZexp\vi) de-
notes the correct bug-inducing commits predicted by all eval-
uated SZZ algorithms except for vi. correctvi∩vj represents
the overlap between the correct bug-inducing commits identi-
ﬁed by the SZZ algorithm vi and another SZZ algorithm vj.
correctvi\(SZZexp\vi), denotes the correct bug-inducing com-
mits that are only identiﬁed by the SZZ algorithm vi.
To analyze the frequency of each Remove Mapping Ghost
and Add Mapping Ghost, we use the same computation as Rezk
et al. [17]. Remove Mapping Ghost: the percentage of bug-
ﬁxing commits that do not remove lines and only add lines out
of all bug-ﬁxing commits. Add Mapping Ghost: the percentage
of commits that do not add lines and only remove lines out of all
commits. With respect to Add Mapping Ghost, we also report
the percentage of bug-inducing commits that do not add lines
and only remove lines out of the set of bug-inducing commits, as
these are the only commits that only remove lines that actually
have an impact on the SZZ results.
V. TC-SZZ
The fundamental premise of the SZZ algorithm is that “a bug-
inducing change adds lines that are later removed by a ﬁx.” In
other words, for a bug-ﬁxing commit, the SZZ algorithms use
the git show command to identify deleted or modiﬁed lines, and
the git blame command to identify the most recent change to
each such line. However, we discovered that some bug-inducing
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:34:02 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


===== PAGE 014 =====
2232
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SOFTWARE ENGINEERING, VOL. 50, NO. 9, SEPTEMBER 2024
Considering that GPT-4 currently has a cap of 25 messages
every 3 hours and the manual process involved, we selected
a sample of 375 failure cases18 (with a 95% conﬁdence level
and 5% margin of error, following previous work [55], [56],
[57], [58]) from the total of 14,437 identiﬁed failure cases.
We exclude the “Line Change Detection” category because
TC-SZZ was able to identify all bug-inducing commits in this
group. To simplify, we do not use TC-SZZ in this section, as
our ground truth in Section VI-C only uses git log -L.
In Section VI-C, we classiﬁed the 14,437 failure cases into
three categories: Function-Log Detection, Within-File Detec-
tion, and Cross-File Detection. This section introduces an
additional category, Function-Blame Detection, which is a
subset of Function-Log Detection. The differentiation lies in
the method used for identifying the bug-inducing commit. In
the case of Function-Log Detection, the git log -L command
is employed. This command helps in tracing the evolution of
speciﬁc parts of a ﬁle, revealing the historical changes that led
to the current state. For Function-Blame Detection, we utilize
the git blame command only once. This command allows us to
pinpoint the last change made to those lines. There are a total of
3,200 Function-Blame Detection cases and 4,994 Function-Log
Detection cases. For instance, consider the commit 06bbf75.19
This commit involves a single deleted line within the function
“process_response_list”. By applying git blame to all the lines
of this function, we can identify the commit that initially intro-
duced the bug. Although git log -L can also be used for this
purpose by showing the evolution of the function over time, git
blame speciﬁcally returns only the most recent changes.
In our sample of 375 cases, we found that 8.5% (32 out of
375) are Function-Log Detections (excluding Function-Blame
Detection cases), and 25.1% (94 out of 375) are Function-
Blame Detections. Moreover, 30.9% (116 out of 375) of the
cases are Within-File Detections, while 35.5% (133 out of
375) of the cases are the Cross-File Detections.
A. Pipeline of ChatGPT Experiment
Fig. 5 shows the pipeline of the ChatGPT experiment.
The pipeline has three steps: (A) Cross-File Detection, (B)
Within-File Detection (C) Function-Log (Function-Blame) De-
tection. The prompts used in the different steps are shown
in Table IX.
For the Function-Log Detection cases, we use the Prompt C
in the Table IX to query ChatGPT. Speciﬁcally, for the 〈Commit
Message〉in the table, we use the commit log subject and body
of the bug-ﬁxing commit. For 〈Code of the Function〉, we use
the code of all changed functions as input for ChatGPT. Subse-
quently, we execute git log -L on the line(s) of code suggested
by ChatGPT to trace the bug-inducing commits. Similarly, for
the Function-Blame Detection cases, we apply the git blame
command to the line(s) of code that ChatGPT indicates to
18This sample size was determined to be statistically representative using
a popular sample size calculator (https://www.surveymonkey.com/mp/sample-
size-calculator/) with a conﬁdence level of 95% and a 5% margin of error.
19https://github.com/torvalds/linux/commit/06bbf753476dab23eb262cb5fba
b6d6d277a0ba3
Fig. 5.
The Pipeline of the ChatGPT Experiment.
TABLE IX
PROMPT FOR GPT-4 IN DIFFERENT SITUATIONS
Situations
Template
Prompt A:
Cross-File
Detection
〈Commit Message〉
Based on the above commit message of a
bug-ﬁxing commit, which ﬁle in the Linux
kernel could be causing this bug-ﬁxing
commit?
Prompt B:
Within-File
Detection
〈Commit Message〉
Based on the above commit message of a
bug-ﬁxing commit and function names in
ﬁle 〈ﬁle_name〉, which function or functions
could be causing this bug-ﬁxing commit?
〈Function Name List〉
Prompt C:
Function-Log
(Function-Blame)
Detection
〈Commit Message〉
Based on the above commit message of a
bug-ﬁxing commit, please identify the line
or lines of code in the following code that
could be causing this bug-ﬁxing commit:
〈Code of the Function〉
identify the bug-inducing commits. To ensure fairness in the
experiment, we remove all portions of the commit message that
directly reference a bug-inducing commit.
Figs. 6 and 7 show an example where ChatGPT successfully
aids in identifying a bug-inducing commit from a Function-
Blame Detection case.20 Initially, we query ChatGPT using the
prompt depicted in Fig. 6. Subsequently, the line(s) of code
returned by ChatGPT (shown in Fig. 7) are subjected to the git
blame command to get the bug-inducing commits.
20https://github.com/torvalds/linux/commit/761e205b559be52852d85e0db4a
034c9f57965f9
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:34:02 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


===== PAGE 015 =====
LYU et al.: EVALUATING SZZ IMPLEMENTATIONS
2233
Fig. 6.
Input Provided to ChatGPT for Commit 761e205 in Linux kernel.
In practice, we provide the entire function code to ChatGPT, however, space
constraints prevent us from including the full screenshot in the paper. The
complete screenshot is available in the replication package.
Fig. 7.
ChatGPT’s Output for Commit 761e205 in Linux kernel. If the
details in the ﬁgure are difﬁcult to discern, please refer to our replication
package.
For the Within-File Detection cases, we follow a two-step
method: (1) We ﬁrst use ctags21 to extract all function names
in a ﬁle. Subsequently, we pose the Prompt B in Table IX
to ChatGPT. We provide ChatGPT with the function names
extracted using ctags, instead of the entire code, because the
number of code tokens in a ﬁle often exceeds the token limit
set by ChatGPT. (2) We then apply the same method as in the
Function-Log Detection category for any correctly identiﬁed
function to ﬁnd the bug-inducing commits.
For the Cross-File Detection cases, we follow the three steps
shown in Fig. 5: (A) The initial step involves identifying the
ﬁle containing the bug-inducing commits. We pose the Prompt
21https://ctags.io
A in Table IX to ChatGPT. Given that the Linux kernel has
15,000 ﬁles and limited information is available in the commit
message, ChatGPT might have difﬁculty identifying an exact
ﬁle. We have observed that it could instead return a directory,
despite not having been prompted to do so, containing the code
affected by the bug-inducing commit. Hence, we evaluate Chat-
GPT’s performance based on the correctness of the identiﬁed
directory and ﬁle. (B) If ChatGPT correctly identiﬁes the ﬁle,
we adopt the same method as the ﬁrst step in the Within-File
Detection category to determine the function. (3) If the correct
function is determined by ChatGPT, we proceed with the same
method as for the Function-Log Detection category to identify
the bug-inducing commits.
B. Results
Since the Function-Blame
Detection category shares
similar principles with the SZZ algorithm, we adopt the SZZ al-
gorithm’s evaluation methodology, as detailed in Section IV-B,
to compute the precision, recall, and F1 for this category.
In contrast, the evaluation for the remaining three categories
(i.e., Function-Log Detection, Within-File Detection, Cross-
File Detection) diverges from the evaluation of the Function-
Blame Detection. Instead of adhering strictly to SZZ-based
principles, for these categories, we focused on assessing the
number of bug-ﬁxing commits that could ﬁnd their bug-
inducing commits (i.e., Recall) with the assistance of ChatGPT.
We also used the git log -L command to identify as many bug-
inducing commits as possible, aiming to evaluate the potential
of a git blame based approach augmented with ChatGPT. For
the Within-File Detection category, we evaluate three indicators
(Function, Line of code, and Recall) as returned by ChatGPT.
For the Cross-File Detection cases, we evaluate ﬁve indicators:
Directory, File, Function, Line of code and Recall.
The result of the ChatGPT experiment is shown in Table X.
For Function-Blame Detection, ChatGPT exhibits a high recall
of 0.62, comparable to that of B-SZZ on the complete Linux
dataset. The precision is, however, only 0.28, because Chat-
GPT selects from lines of all changed functions, resulting in a
substantially larger selection space, especially given that some
functions span hundreds of lines. For Function-Log Detection,
the recall of our ChatGPT method dips to 0.31. Regarding
Within-File Detection, ChatGPT successfully predicts the cor-
rect function in 32 out of 76 cases (42.1%). In 44 instances,
ChatGPT makes an incorrect prediction, and in ten other cases,
the prediction fails due to token limitations, no functions, or
ChatGPT’s inability to discern the correct function. Cross-
File Detection presents a signiﬁcant challenge as the commit
messages often lack sufﬁcient information to identify the ﬁle.
In over half the cases, ChatGPT could only return the directory
of the ﬁle that might contain the bug-inducing commits. How-
ever, we found that ChatGPT correctly predicts the directory in
65% of these cases. Furthermore, it successfully identiﬁes bug-
inducing commits in 11 cases where the bug-inducing commit
is not in the ﬁle modiﬁed in the bug-ﬁxing commit. In analyzing
the 11 successful cases of Cross-File Detections, we observed
that the majority of the pairs of bug-ﬁxing and bug-inducing
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:34:02 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


===== PAGE 016 =====
2234
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SOFTWARE ENGINEERING, VOL. 50, NO. 9, SEPTEMBER 2024
TABLE X
RESULTS OF THE CHATGPT EXPERIMENT // INDICATES THAT THE RESPECTIVE INDICATOR WAS
NOT EVALUATED IN THE CORRESPONDING CATEGORY
Failure Situations
Number
Directory
File
Function
Line of Code
Recall
Precision
F1
Function-Blame Detection
94
//
//
//
//
0.62
0.28
0.39
Function-Log Detection
32
//
//
//
✓: 8 ✗: 24
0.31
//
//
Within-File Detection
116
//
//
✓: 32 ✗: 44
✓: 25 ✗: 26
0.22
//
//
Cross-File Detection
133
✓: 86 ✗: 46
✓: 43 ✗: 46
✓: 10 ✗: 11
✓: 11 ✗: 5
0.08
//
//
commits are located within the same directory. For example,
the bug-ﬁxing commit 5b8481f and the bug-inducing commit
89a23c8 are both found within the ‘net/ipv6’ directory. Never-
theless, there are four instances where the bug-ﬁxing commit is
not even in the same root directory as the bug-inducing commit.
Through this ChatGPT experiment, we conclude that Chat-
GPT exhibits potential in assisting researchers and developers
in identifying bug-inducing commits. We acknowledge that this
exploration is only preliminary, given that our experimental
setup does not reﬂect realistic conditions, as we knew the cate-
gories beforehand. Nonetheless, considering that ChatGPT is
a generalized model not speciﬁcally ﬁne-tuned for this task,
its performance hints at the potential beneﬁts of similar LLMs.
We hope that this work will catalyze further research efforts on
using LLMs to overcome the limitations of the SZZ algorithm
in identifying bug-inducing commits, including challenges such
as ghost commits and cross-ﬁle detection.
C. Evaluating ChatGPT Beyond the 2021 Data Cutoff
ChatGPT may have been trained on the data used in our
experiment, which could bias the results. Our initial work with
ChatGPT, involving 165 commits, was carried out from June
28th to July 4th, 2023, prior to OpenAI’s announcement on
September 27th, 2023 that it had enhanced ChatGPT’s capabil-
ities, extending its knowledge base beyond the previous cutoff
in September 2021.22 This raises the opportunity to compare
the success rate ChatGPT on those commits that were released
prior to September 2021 to those that were released after that
date, that were certain to be outside of the knowledge base of
ChatGPT.
In an analysis of 165 commits up to September 2023, 134
were made before September 2021, and the remaining 31 oc-
curred after this date. This date serves as the data cutoff point,
dividing the commits into two groups for evaluation: commits
before the cutoff may have been part of the ChatGPT training
data, while those subsequent to the cutoff had not. As shown
in Table XI, for Function-Blame Detection, testing cases subse-
quent to the data cutoff exhibited a notable improvement with
ChatGPT, achieving a 24% increase in recall (from 0.47 to 0.71)
and a 7% increase in precision (from 0.26 to 0.33). However,
for Function-Log Detection and Within-File Detection, testing
cases subsequent to the data cutoff resulted in a 2% decrease
in performance. Regarding Cross-File Detection, testing cases
before the data cutoff had an 8% recall rate, whereas cases
after the data cutoff failed to identify the correct bug-inducing
commits in this category. Given that testing cases after the data
22https://twitter.com/OpenAI/status/1707077710047216095?s=20
TABLE XI
COMPARATIVE OF CHATGPT ON BEFORE AND AFTER 2021 DATA CUTOFF
Failure
Before (134)
After (31)
Situations
Recall
Pr.
Recall
Pr.
Function-Blame Detection
0.47
0.26
0.71
0.33
Function-Log Detection
0.35
-
0.33
-
Within-File Detection
0.24
-
0.22
-
Cross-File Detection
0.08
-
0
-
cutoff demonstrated a signiﬁcant advantage of up to 24% in one
category, and no substantial disadvantage in the three remaining
categories—with drops ranging from 2% to 8%—there is no
conclusive evidence to suggest that testing cases potentially
seen by ChatGPT would impact the experimental results.
D. Compare With Code-Speciﬁc Models
To further evaluate the performance of ChatGPT, we conduct
a comparative analysis with the code-speciﬁc models CodeT5+
[59] and CodeGen2.0 [60], applying a consistent experimen-
tal setting as outlined in Section VII-A. We follow again the
evaluation methodology described at the beginning of Section
VII-B. We use the same prompts for ChatGPT, CodeT5+, and
CodeGen2.0 to ensure a fair comparison. CodeT5+, proposed
by Wang et al. [59], stands out as an encoder-decoder code foun-
dation LLMs, demonstrating good performance across more
than 20 code-related benchmarks involving both understanding
or generative tasks, including in the zero-shot setting. Given
that the 2B, 6B, and 16B parameter sizes of CodeT5+ are built
upon CodeGen, we also include a comparison with CodeGen2.0
in our analysis. However, due to constraints related to GPU
memory, our assessment is conﬁned to the codet5p-2b and
codegen2-3_7B models for the inference stage, as these are the
largest model sizes we can load. Both models are deployed on a
Docker environment with NVIDIA RTX 6000 Ada Generation
(48GB of graphics memory). We use the same settings for the
CodeT5+ 2B23 and CodeGen2-3.7B24 models from Hugging
Face. The default conﬁgurations for CodeT5+ include parame-
ters such as temperature of 1.0, model type as encoder-decoder,
and 16-bit ﬂoating point tensors. On the other hand, CodeGen2
uses similar defaults with a temperature of 1.0 but employs the
GPT2Tokenizer and conﬁgures tensors to use 32-bit ﬂoating
point. Additionally, for both models, we adjust the max_length
parameter to 2048.
23https://huggingface.co/Salesforce/codet5p-2b
24https://huggingface.co/Salesforce/codegen2-3_7B_P
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:34:02 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
