===== PAGE 008 =====
2226
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SOFTWARE ENGINEERING, VOL. 50, NO. 9, SEPTEMBER 2024
IV. STUDY DESIGN
The purpose of this study is to empirically evaluate the var-
ious implementations of the SZZ algorithm on the currently
largest dataset for SZZ evaluation and to investigate patterns
that cannot be identiﬁed by SZZ (i.e., how to improve the recall
of the SZZ algorithms), particularly Ghost Commits. To achieve
these goals, we formulate three research questions:
RQ1: How well do the different variants of SZZ perform
in identifying bug-inducing changes?
In our ﬁrst research question, we aim to examine the per-
formance of different SZZ variants on our dataset relative to
a previous study by Rosa et al. [28]. Our study involves a
dataset with more bug-ﬁxing commits than in previous studies.
Evaluating SZZ is crucial to ascertain if the prior studies’claims
remain valid in an updated and more comprehensive dataset
from a complete software project.
RQ2: What is the impact of Ghost Commits on the
behavior of SZZ in a real software project?
In our second research question, we aim to explore the effects
of ghost commits on the use of SZZ variants in a real software
project, We divide RQ2 into two speciﬁc questions: (1) How
frequently do ghost commits (Remove Mapping Ghost as bug-
ﬁxing commits, Add Mapping Ghost as bug-inducing commits)
occur? (2) How do ghost commits impact the SZZ algorithms?
RQ3: What other situations, besides Ghost Commits,
are undetectable by SZZ algorithms? In our ﬁnal research
question, we aim to identify additional situations where the SZZ
algorithms fail, apart from the Ghost Commit situation. Given
that SZZ algorithms are founded on the assumption that “a bug-
inducing change adds lines that are later removed by a ﬁx,”
we address two speciﬁc questions within RQ3: (1) Do all fail-
ure cases, besides Ghost Commits, adhere to this assumption?
(2) Beyond the previously studied situation, what other situa-
tions prevent SZZ from successfully identifying bug-inducing
commits?
A. Algorithm Selection & Data Collection
We conduct experiments on several variants of the SZZ al-
gorithm. Speciﬁcally, we adapt the main variants from the prior
study by Rosa et al. [28] to run on our dataset. Of these, we do
not use SZZ Unleashed since our commits are not associated
with an issue tracker; thus there is no issue date. We do not
use OpenSZZ since it needs a Jira URL as input. RA-SZZ∗
only works on Java as Refactoring Miner [30] can only detect
refactoring operations in Java ﬁles. Therefore we do not use
RA-SZZ∗because the Linux kernel is a C-based project. In
summary, we use B-SZZ, AG-SZZ, L-SZZ, R-SZZ, MA-SZZ,
and PyDriller (SZZ@PYD). We used the KFC dataset, featur-
ing the complete set of 76,046 Fixes: annotated bug-ﬁxes.
B. Data Analysis
Given the set of bug-inducing commits predicted by the
tested SZZ algorithms and the collected dataset, we evaluate
the accuracy of the tested SZZ algorithms using recall and
precision, two well-known Information Retrieval metrics [51].
We also use F1 score [52], which calculates the harmonic
mean of recall and precision. These metrics have been used
in previous studies to evaluate SZZ performance [28], [46].
The metrics for a bug-ﬁxing commits are deﬁned as follows,
where correctci is the ground truth of bug-ﬁxing commit ci,
i.e., the bug-inducing commits annotated by the original Linux
kernel developer, identiﬁedci is the bug-inducing commits of
bug-ﬁxing commit ci identiﬁed by the SZZ algorithms, and N
is the total number of bug-ﬁxing commits:
recall = 1
N
N

ci=1
|correctci ∩identiﬁedci|
|correctci|
precision = 1
N
N

ci=1
|correctci ∩identiﬁedci|
|identiﬁedci|
cF1 = 2 · recall × precision
recall + precision
We also analyze the complementarity of the SZZ variants
following previous work [28]. Given the set of evaluated SZZ
variants SZZ eval = {v1, v2, . . . , vn}, we compute their comple-
mentarity using the following metrics for each vi [53]:
correctvi∩vj = |correctvi ∩correctvj|
|correctvi ∪correctvj|
correctvi\(SZZ exp\vi) = |correctvi \ correct(SZZ exp\vi)|
|correctvi ∪correct(SZZ exp\vi)|
correctvi denotes the set of correct bug-inducing commits
predicted by the SZZ algorithm vi. correct(SZZexp\vi) de-
notes the correct bug-inducing commits predicted by all eval-
uated SZZ algorithms except for vi. correctvi∩vj represents
the overlap between the correct bug-inducing commits identi-
ﬁed by the SZZ algorithm vi and another SZZ algorithm vj.
correctvi\(SZZexp\vi), denotes the correct bug-inducing com-
mits that are only identiﬁed by the SZZ algorithm vi.
To analyze the frequency of each Remove Mapping Ghost
and Add Mapping Ghost, we use the same computation as Rezk
et al. [17]. Remove Mapping Ghost: the percentage of bug-
ﬁxing commits that do not remove lines and only add lines out
of all bug-ﬁxing commits. Add Mapping Ghost: the percentage
of commits that do not add lines and only remove lines out of all
commits. With respect to Add Mapping Ghost, we also report
the percentage of bug-inducing commits that do not add lines
and only remove lines out of the set of bug-inducing commits, as
these are the only commits that only remove lines that actually
have an impact on the SZZ results.
V. TC-SZZ
The fundamental premise of the SZZ algorithm is that “a bug-
inducing change adds lines that are later removed by a ﬁx.” In
other words, for a bug-ﬁxing commit, the SZZ algorithms use
the git show command to identify deleted or modiﬁed lines, and
the git blame command to identify the most recent change to
each such line. However, we discovered that some bug-inducing
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:34:02 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


===== PAGE 009 =====
LYU et al.: EVALUATING SZZ IMPLEMENTATIONS
2227
commits are not the most recent changes before the bug ﬁx, but
rather appeared earlier in a deleted or modiﬁed line’s change
history.
For example, Fig. 1 shows a line’s change history (i.e., it-
eratively using git blame until the initial commit) of the bug-
ﬁxing commit 68ad6d.11 Following Bao et al. [48], we call the
immediately preceding the lines changed in the ﬁxing commit
the previous commits (i.e., commit 53c13b in Fig. 1) and all
commits (except the initial one) that previously modiﬁed these
lines as the descendant commits (i.e., commit 8c49d9, 40747f,
61a492 in Fig. 1). We refer to the commit at which tracing
can no longer continue as the initial commit (i.e., commit
454ede in Fig. 1). B-SZZ identiﬁed the previous commit as the
bug-inducing commit, relying on using git blame once. Other
algorithms, such as AG-SZZ and MA-SZZ, which improve on
B-SZZ, access the rest of the descendant commits, identifying
bug-inducing commits from other commits by considering cri-
teria such as whether the commit is a meta-change. However, no
existing algorithm comprehensively examines the line change
history to identify the bug-inducing commit.
Therefore, we propose the Tracing-Commit-SZZ (TC-SZZ)
algorithm, which assumes a distinct function as compared to
previous SZZ algorithms. Unlike the six SZZ algorithms dis-
cussed in this paper, which normally identify only the pre-
vious commit as the bug-inducing commit, and V-SZZ [48],
which considers the initial commit based on the observation
that vulnerabilities are often foundational, TC-SZZ is designed
to more effectively locate and understand the position of the
bug-inducing commit in the change history of lines. TC-SZZ
applies git blame iteratively to all deleted or modiﬁed lines
in the bug-ﬁxing commit until it reaches the initial commit,
and returns all commits (i.e., the descendant commits and the
initial commit in Fig. 1) in the change history of these lines.
If git blame leads to a commit that has multiple removed
lines, TC-SZZ chooses one among them to continue the iter-
ation. Choosing all lines could lead to too much fanout, giving
many false positives. For this, we have developed an algo-
rithm based on V-SZZ [48]. Our algorithm takes into account
both the string similarity and the relative distance between
the line reported by git blame and the deleted lines in the
same commit.
An alternative to the iterative use of git blame would be to
use git log -L, which tracks changes to speciﬁc lines through
the history. TC-SZZ, however, adds an additional dimension
by considering string similarity, which can account for moved
lines, thus identifying more bug-inducing commits than git log
-L. Take for example commit 5b47348.12 If we apply the git
log -L command on the lines deleted by this bug-ﬁxing commit,
we only trace back to commit ed928a3.13 In this commit, the
developer relocated a few functionsto a different part of the ﬁle.
11https://github.com/torvalds/linux/commit/d8ad6d39c35d2b44b3d48b787df
7f3359381dcbf
12https://github.com/torvalds/linux/commit/5b47348fc0b18a78c96f8474cc90
b7525ad1bbfe
13https://github.com/torvalds/linux/commit/ed928a3402d8a24a70c242c6310
9c069a7b1f3ab
TABLE II
RECALL, PRECISION, AND F1 RESULTS OF ALL SZZ ALGORITHMS
Algorithm
datasetlinux
datasetrosa
Precision
Recall
F1
Precision
Recall
F1
B-SZZ
0.42
0.58
0.49
0.39
0.69
0.50
AG-SZZ
0.42
0.56
0.48
0.45
0.60
0.52
L-SZZ
0.57
0.43
0.49
0.52
0.45
0.48
R-SZZ
0.59
0.45
0.51
0.66
0.57
0.61
MA-SZZ
0.40
0.55
0.46
0.36
0.64
0.46
SZZ@PYD
0.43
0.55
0.48
0.39
0.67
0.49
The git log -L command interprets this as the initial commit
for these lines. However, TC-SZZ goes beyond this by ﬁnding
lines with similar content and executing git blame once more,
enabling us to identify the bug-inducing commits.
To facilitate future research on understanding the placement
of bug-inducing commits in the change history, TC-SZZ offers
multiple modes: (1) Chronological Trace Mode: For every
deleted or modiﬁed line in a bug-ﬁxing commit, TC-SZZ re-
turns all potential bug-inducing commits in the order of git
blame. For instance, Fig. 1 illustrates the change history of
a bug-ﬁxing commit for a speciﬁc deleted or modiﬁed line,
with TC-SZZ providing the sequence: previous commit, de-
scendants commit 61a492, 40747f, 8c49d9, and initial commit.
(2) Unique Commits Mode: For the sake of conciseness, based
on the results from Chronological Trace Mode, only unique
potential bug-inducing commits are returned, eliminating du-
plicates. (3) Custom Blame Invocation Mode: The user has
the ability to specify the number of times git blame is invoked
(a parameter of 1 is standard for SZZ, a parameter of 2 means
using git blame twice for each modiﬁed line, and a parameter
of -1 identiﬁes the initial commit). Our implementation of TC-
SZZ is publicly available in the replication package.
VI. RESULTS
In this section, we answer the three Research Questions pro-
posed in Section IV.
A. RQ1: SZZ Performance
Table II presents the results for the six SZZ algorithms,
ordered chronologically, on our newly collected KFC dataset,
compared against the results reported by Rosa et al. [28] for
their dataset (datasetrosa).
The results demonstrate that R-SZZ is the best algorithm
(with the highest F1) on both datasets, given that F1 combines
precision and recall. There are several factors that cause R-SZZ
to outperform the other SZZ variants on our dataset. First and
foremost, R-SZZ only returns the most recent commit among
all candidates. At the same time, 96.1% (73,109) of the Linux
bug-ﬁxing commits have only one bug-inducing commit. Thus,
R-SZZ, by returning only one bug-inducing commit, achieves
higher precision than SZZ algorithms that return multiple bug-
inducing commits.
Four of the six algorithms demonstrate better precision on the
KFC dataset than on the baseline (i.e., Rosa’s result), with an
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:34:02 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


===== PAGE 010 =====
2228
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SOFTWARE ENGINEERING, VOL. 50, NO. 9, SEPTEMBER 2024
TABLE III
AVERAGE NUMBER OF BUG-INDUCING
COMMITS IDENTIFIED BY VARIOUS SZZ
ALGORITHMS PER BUG-FIXING COMMIT
Algorithm
datasetlinux
datasetrosa
B-SZZ
1.76
1.96
AG-SZZ
1.73
1.73
L-SZZ
1
1
R-SZZ
1
1
MA-SZZ
1.81
2.01
SZZ@PYD
1.73
1.95
average improvement of 9.67% for these four algorithms. Only
AG-SZZ and R-SZZ have lower precision on the KFC dataset
than on the baseline. R-SZZ and L-SZZ hold a signiﬁcant
advantage in precision compared to other SZZ variants on the
KFC dataset. AG-SZZ, the third-best performer, performs in
line with B-SZZ on the Linux dataset (42%). SZZ@PYD ranks
as the fourth best algorithm in Rosa’s dataset, but it is the third
best algorithm in our dataset. Concurrently, MA-SZZ consis-
tently underperforms.
Table III presents the average number of bug-inducing com-
mits identiﬁed by the different SZZ algorithms for each bug-
ﬁxing commit across the two datasets, excluding the Ghost
Commits. For instance, for each bug-ﬁxing commit on Rosa’s
dataset [28], B-SZZ identiﬁes an average of 1.96 bug-inducing
commits, whereas, on the KFC dataset, B-SZZ only identiﬁes
an average of 1.76 bug-inducing commits. Thus, the precision
of B-SZZ of 0.39 on Rosa’s dataset increases to 0.42 on the
Linux kernel dataset, an increase of 7.7%. The results in Tables
II and III clearly show that as the number of identiﬁed commits
decreases, precision increases.
Recall: As shown in Table II, all SZZ algorithms exhibit
varying degrees of decline in recall as compared to the results
on Rosa’s Dataset, with an average decrease of 13.34%
across the six algorithms. This highlights the challenge of
achieving good recall with the SZZ algorithm, an issue that
seems more signiﬁcant on the Linux kernel dataset than in
the previous empirical study [28]. Among all SZZ algorithms,
B-SZZ consistently delivers the best performance on both
datasets. In contrast, L-SZZ and R-SZZ are the least effective
algorithms, as they identify only one potential bug-inducing
commit each. MA-SZZ consistently ranks as the third-best
algorithm. Notably, MA-SZZ, AG-SZZ, and SZZ@PYD
demonstrate remarkably similar performance on the Linux
dataset, with a mere 0.1% difference between them. One source
of missed bug-inducing commits is ghost commits. In Section
VI-B, we will examine the inﬂuence of ghost commits on the
recall achieved by the SZZ algorithms. Then, in Section VI-C,
we will investigate the other situations SZZ fails to identify
bug-inducing commits.
Our ﬁndings conﬁrm that the top-performing algorithms
for precision and recall remain R-SZZ (∼59%) and B-SZZ
(∼58%), respectively, which validates the previous research by
Rosa et al. However, when applied to a complete repository
such as the Linux kernel, the precision of R-SZZ and recall
TABLE IV
BUG-INDUCING COMMITS CORRECTLY IDENTIFIED EXCLUSIVELY BY
EACH SZZ ALGORITHM
Algorithm
datasetlinux
percentage
datasetrosa
percentage
B-SZZ
1024/47352
2.163%
21/784
2.679%
AG-SZZ
2/47352
0.004%
0/784
0%
L-SZZ
0/47352
0%
0/784
0%
R-SZZ
0/47352
0%
0/784
0%
MA-SZZ
160/47352
0.338%
1/784
0.128%
SZZ@PYD
66/47352
0.139%
0/784
0%
of B-SZZ, two leading SZZ algorithms, decline by 10.6% and
15.9%, respectively. While R-SZZ can still be useful for cases
where precision is crucial and B-SZZ when recall is crucial, it
is important to note that both algorithms still have limitations
in accurately and comprehensively identifying bug-inducing
commits in software repositories.
Table IV presents the correctvi\(SZZexp\vi) metric calculated
for each SZZ variant vi. This metric represents the correct bug-
inducing commits identiﬁed exclusively by vi and not by the
other SZZ algorithms. For instance, consider the KFC dataset,
where all SZZ algorithms combined correctly identify a total of
47,352 bug-inducing commits. Of these, B-SZZ uniquely and
correctly identiﬁes 1,024 bug-inducing commits not identiﬁed
by other SZZ algorithms. Similarly, in the datasetrosa, the total
number of correctly identiﬁed bug-inducing commits by all
SZZ algorithms is 784, with B-SZZ alone correctly identifying
21 bug-inducing commits that the other algorithms did not.
In datasetlinux, four techniques (i.e., B-SZZ, AG-SZZ, MA-
SZZ, SZZ@PYD) identify bug-inducing commits that remain
undiscovered by other techniques, while in datasetrosa, only two
techniques (B-SZZ, MA-SZZ) exhibit this ability. Given that
B-SZZ does not ﬁlter any potential bug-inducing commits and
shows the highest recall in the results displayed in Table II, it has
the most uniquely identiﬁed bug-inducing commits across both
datasets. Interestingly, despite having the third-lowest recall,
MA-SZZ can uniquely identify 160 bug-inducing commits.
The results depicted in Table IV illustrate the correct iden-
tiﬁcation of bug-inducing commits by technique vi that were
missed by all other techniques. Conversely, Fig. 4(a) and 4(b)
depict the correctvi∩vj metric, which represents the degree of
similarity between any two algorithms in their ability to accu-
rately identify bug-inducing commits, calculated for each pair
of SZZ variants on datasetlinux and datasetrosa respectively. The
heatmaps exhibit symmetry, as correctvi∩vj = correctvj∩vi.
Fig. 4 reveals a signiﬁcant overlap in the true positives
identiﬁed in both datasets. In datasetrosa, 13 out of 15 com-
parisons share more than 70% overlap in the identiﬁed true
positives, while in datasetlinux, all 15 comparisons show this
level of overlap. For instance, in Fig 4(a), the similarity between
B-SZZ and AG-SZZ in the KFC dataset can be observed at the
intersection of row 2 and column 1, or equivalently at row 1
and column 2 due to symmetry, where it is 0.94. The comple-
mentarity between the different SZZ variants is thus relatively
low on both datasets, suggesting that there is a group of bug-
ﬁxing commits for which all variants fail to identify the correct
bug-inducing commit.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:34:02 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
