LLM4SZZ: Enhancing SZZ Algorithm with Context-Enhanced
Assessment on Large Language Models
LINGXIAO TANG∗, Zhejiang University, China
JIAKUN LIU, Singapore Management University, Singapore
ZHONGXIN LIU, Zhejiang University, China
XIAOHU YANG, Zhejiang University, China
LINGFENG BAO†∗ , Zhejiang University, China
The SZZ algorithm is the dominant technique for identifying bug-inducing commits and serves as a foundation
for many software engineering studies, such as bug prediction and static code analysis, thereby enhancing
software quality and facilitating better maintenance practices. Researchers have proposed many variants to
enhance the SZZ algorithm’s performance since its introduction. The majority of them rely on static techniques
or heuristic assumptions, making them easy to implement, but their performance improvements are often
limited. Recently, a deep learning-based SZZ algorithm has been introduced to enhance the original SZZ
algorithm. However, it requires complex preprocessing and is restricted to a single programming language.
Additionally, while it enhances precision, it sacrifices recall. Furthermore, most of variants overlook crucial
information, such as commit messages and patch context, and are limited to bug-fixing commits involving
deleted lines.
The emergence of large language models (LLMs) offers an opportunity to address these drawbacks. In
this study, we investigate the strengths and limitations of LLMs and propose LLM4SZZ, which employs two
approaches (i.e., rank-based identification and context-enhanced identification) to handle different types of
bug-fixing commits. We determine which approach to adopt based on the LLM’s ability to comprehend the
bug and identify whether the bug is present in a commit. The context-enhanced identification provides the
LLM with more context and requires it to find the bug-inducing commit among a set of candidate commits. In
rank-based identification, we ask the LLM to select buggy statements from the bug-fixing commit and rank
them based on their relevance to the root cause. Experimental results show that LLM4SZZ outperforms all
baselines across three datasets, improving F1-score by 6.9% to 16.0% without significantly sacrificing recall.
Additionally, LLM4SZZ can identify many bug-inducing commits that the baselines fail to detect, accounting
for 7.8%, 7.4% and 2.5% of the total bug-inducing commits across three datasets, respectively.
CCS Concepts: • Software and its engineering →Maintaining software.
Additional Key Words and Phrases: SZZ Algorithm, large language model
∗Also with Hangzhou High-Tech Zone (Binjiang) Institute of Blockchain and Data Security
†Corresponding author
Authors’ Contact Information: Lingxiao Tang, 12421037@zju.edu.cn, The State Key Laboratory of Blockchain and Data
Security, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China; Jiakun Liu, jkliu@smu.edu.sg, Singapore Management University,
Singapore, Singapore; Zhongxin Liu, liu_zx@zju.edu.cn, The State Key Laboratory of Blockchain and Data Security, Zhejiang
University, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China; Xiaohu Yang, yangxh@zju.edu.cn, The State Key Laboratory of Blockchain and
Data Security, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China; Lingfeng Bao, lingfengbao@zju.edu.cn, The State Key
Laboratory of Blockchain and Data Security, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China.
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee
provided that copies are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the
full citation on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the author(s) must be honored.
Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires
prior specific permission and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
© 2025 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.
ACM 2994-970X/2025/7-ARTISSTA016
https://doi.org/10.1145/3728885
Proc. ACM Softw. Eng., Vol. 2, No. ISSTA, Article ISSTA016. Publication date: July 2025.


===== PAGE 002 =====
ISSTA016:2 Lingxiao Tang, Jiakun Liu, Zhongxin Liu, Xiaohu Yang, and Lingfeng Bao
ACM Reference Format:
Lingxiao Tang, Jiakun Liu, Zhongxin Liu, Xiaohu Yang, and Lingfeng Bao. 2025. LLM4SZZ: Enhancing SZZ
Algorithm with Context-Enhanced Assessment on Large Language Models. Proc. ACM Softw. Eng. 2, ISSTA,
Article ISSTA016 (July 2025), 23 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3728885