1 Introduction
The growing number of open-source software (OSS) has made
it possible for developers to reuse neat functionalities from
reliable OSS projects [11, 12, 37]. At the same time, how-
ever, vulnerabilities propagated by the third-party OSS reuse
can threaten the security of the entire system [14, 17, 48, 49].
*Heejo Lee is the corresponding author.
Maintaining OSS components up to date can, in principle, be a
solution to prevent such threats. However, a hasty component
update can adversely affect the entire system (e.g., backward
compatibility problems [40, 44]), especially when developers
reuse OSS projects with code or structural modifications [48].
Therefore, developers often backport upstream security
patches [43] to prevent undesirable threats from vulnerabil-
ities, instead of updating the entire component. To this end,
they first need to identify vulnerable code in the component
to be fixed [13, 43], for example, by leveraging vulnerable
code clone (VCC) discovery techniques (e.g., [17, 49]) and
software composition analysis (SCA) techniques that identify
reused components in a target program (e.g., [9, 48]).
Unfortunately, the precise discovery of vulnerabilities from
modified OSS components is becoming challenging; the main
obstacle is the syntax diversity of vulnerable code, mostly
caused by the following two types of OSS modifications.
• Internal modification of the OSS: The OSS source
code frequently changes during OSS version updates. In
this context, vulnerable codes can exist in various forms
depending on the OSS version, and can be propagated
to other software with various syntaxes.
• External modification of the OSS: Vulnerable code
can be modified during the OSS reuse process, owing to
the nature of the OSS ecosystem where the source code
is often modified in the reuse process [48].
These two types of OSS modifications collectively impair the
accuracy of discovering propagated vulnerable code, as their
syntax can differ from that of the disclosed vulnerable code
(e.g., through public vulnerability databases [31]). To the best
of our knowledge, none of the existing techniques are capable
of precisely discovering vulnerable codes of various syntaxes
present in the modified OSS components.
Limitations of existing techniques. Existing VCC discovery
techniques (e.g., [14, 17, 49]) do not consider internal modifi-
cations of the OSS and examine only external modifications
in a limited fashion, thereby producing many false negatives.
In particular, they can only discover VCCs containing code
USENIX Association 31st USENIX Security Symposium    3037

===== PAGE 003 =====
lines that were deleted from security patches, which are often
omitted in VCCs within modified OSS components. In con-
trast, existing SCA tools (e.g., [9,48]) determine the existence
of vulnerabilities based only on the reused OSS version, pro-
ducing false positives especially when the vulnerable code is
patched through backporting or not reused. Incidentally, exist-
ing code clone detection techniques (e.g., [35,42]) can be used
to discover VCCs, but they are prone to produce false posi-
tives because they cannot distinguish vulnerable and patched
codes that exhibit high code similarities in general [17, 49].
To overcome such shortcomings, we present MOVERY
(MOdified Vulnerable code clone discovERY), a precise ap-
proach for discovering modified vulnerable code clones from
modified OSS components.
Our approach. The key idea of MOVERY , which is out-
standingly distinguishable from existing VCC discovery tech-
niques, lies in generating an extensible signature that compre-
hends from the oldest to disclosed vulnerable functions.
MOVERY comprises the following two phases: (1) P1 for
generating signatures, and (2) P2 for discovering VCCs.
In P1, MOVERY generates vulnerability and patch signa-
tures using vulnerable and patched functions reconstructed
from security patches. Specifically, MOVERY uses techniques
called function collation and core line extraction. Unlike ex-
isting techniques that focus only on the disclosed vulnerable
function, MOVERY additionally considers the oldest vulnera-
ble function and collates them; this is for addressing internal
OSS modifications, as the delta between the oldest and dis-
closed vulnerable functions summarizes the changes in the
vulnerable code during OSS updates. Thereafter, MOVERY
generates signatures by storing only the core vulnerable and
patch code lines; the generated signatures can be used to dis-
cover VCCs without being affected by code changes other
than core vulnerable and patch code lines (see Section 3.1).
In P2, MOVERY discovers the VCCs in the target software
using the generated signatures. For scalability, MOVERY re-
duces the VCC search space by leveraging the concept of
the existing SCA technique [48], which only inspects code
parts borrowed from other OSS. For accuracy, MOVERY ap-
plies a selective abstraction technique to precisely discover
VCCs with external OSS modifications. Finally, MOVERY
confirms that the function in the target software is a vulnera-
ble code clone when it matches vulnerability signatures and
is distinctive from patch signatures (see Section 3.2).
Evaluation. Experimental results showed that MOVERY sig-
nificantly outperformed existing VCC discovery techniques
such as ReDeBug [14] and VUDDY [17]. For evaluation,
we collected 4,219 Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures
(CVE) patches from the NVD [31], including all the C/C++
CVEs that released their patches via Git [19, 47].
When we appliedMOVERY , ReDeBug, and VUDDY on ten
popular software selected from diverse domains, we observed
that 91% of the discovered VCCs had a different syntax from
disclosed vulnerable functions. In the experiments, MOVERY
was able to discover VCCs at least 2.5 times more than ex-
isting techniques with much higher accuracy; this is because
ReDeBug and VUDDY neither consider OSS modifications
nor properly address the syntax diversity of VCCs, resulting
in many false negatives. Specifically, MOVERY discovered
415 VCCs with 96% precision and 96% recall, meanwhile
ReDeBug and VUDDY discovered 163 and 72 VCCs with at
most 77% precision and 38% recall (see Section 5.1).
We further confirmed that MOVERY showed substantially
better accuracy in discovering VCCs from modified compo-
nents than MVP [49] (i.e., a recurring vulnerability detection
technique) and CENTRIS [48] (i.e., an SCA technique): MVP,
which does not consider internal OSS modifications, reported
184 false negatives (54% recall) for ten target software, while
the CENTRIS -based VCC discovery approach yielded 272
false positives (51% precision) as it did not consider back-
ported security patches (see Section 5.2 and Section 5.3).
Moreover, we demonstrated that MOVERY discovered
VCCs from ten target software of various code sizes ( i.e.,
ranging from 212,672 to 14,489,534 C/C++ lines of code)
within 200 s on average (for each software). This measured
elapsed time is shorter than that of ReDeBug (298 s) and
VUDDY (798 s), suggesting that MOVERY is sufficiently fast
and scalable for practical usage (see Section 5.4).
Contributions. We summarize our contributions below.
• We present MOVERY , the first approach for precisely
discovering VCCs in modified OSS components. The
key technique is generating signatures that are capable of
addressing the internal and external OSS modifications.
• We demonstrated that internal modifications of the OSS,
which were hardly considered in existing techniques, can
play a leading role in the syntax diversity of VCCs.
• Although most (91%) of the syntax of VCCs in modi-
fied components differed from the disclosed vulnerable
functions, MOVERY was able to discover 415 VCCs in
ten target software selected from diverse domains, with
96% precision and 96% recall.
