6 Discussion
Threshold setting. We used two threshold values: we skipped
normalized code lines when the number of characters is less
than 15, and used θ of 0.5 in the experiment. Since the related
experiments of the latter case were introduced in Section 5.1,
here we only discuss the former case.
Skipping short code lines was determined from our obser-
vations: when we manually inspected normalized code lines
with less than 15 characters, more than 90% were observed as
frequently appearing in non-vulnerable codes such as return
statements, common-named variable declarations, parenthe-
ses, “else”, and “continue” statements. If the vulnerability
signature includes such a short code line, it could potentially
lead MOVERY to produce FPs. When we slightly increased
the character-length limit (e.g., 16 or 17), we observed that the
ratio of non-vulnerable code lines decreased. Therefore, we
set the threshold value as 15 characters. Note that this thresh-
old is dependent on the vulnerability dataset. If MOVERY
is applied in a different vulnerability dataset, this threshold
needs to be adjusted.
3048    31st USENIX Security Symposium USENIX Association

===== PAGE 014 =====
Use of the oldest vulnerable function. When generating sig-
natures, MOVERY considers the oldest vulnerable function to
address internal OSS modifications. In fact,MOVERY can use
any older version’s vulnerable function whose syntax differs
from the disclosed vulnerable function; the reason for select-
ing the oldest one is to cover more internal modifications.
We introduce the rationale behind considering only the
common code line between the oldest ( fo) and disclosed vul-
nerable functions ( fd). Suppose we want to extract essential
vulnerable code lines (see Section 3.1) from the vulnerable
functions. Such essential vulnerable code lines can (1) exist
in both fo and fd, (2) not exist in both fo and fd, or (3) exist
in either one. Let vo be the oldest vulnerable version, and vd
be the latest (i.e., disclosed) vulnerable version. Here we can
make two inferences. First, if the essential vulnerable code
lines do not exist in both fo and fd, then vo and vd should be
excluded from the versions affected by vulnerability. Next, if
the essential vulnerable code lines exist only in fd and not in
fo, then vo should be left out of the affected versions.
Based on these inferences, we can conclude that the es-
sential vulnerable code lines are simultaneously included in
fo and fd as long as the version information affected by the
vulnerability includes both vo and vd. In this context, we can
justify our approach as long as the NVD, which is our data
source (see Section 4.1), provides correct CPE.
Vulnerability disclosure. We reported 14 triggerable VCCs
(e.g., using Proofs-of-Concept), which were discovered in
the target software such as Git and OpenMVG, and in other
popular OSS projects such as LibA V and LibGDX, to the
development teams; it is noteworthy that 10 out of 14 VCCs
were discovered only in MOVERY and not in previous VCC
discovery techniques (e.g., [14, 17, 49]).
(1) Vulnerability confirmed.Nine development teams con-
firmed our vulnerability reports, of which two of them
were patched, and another two of them will be resolved.
(2) Under discussions. For the remaining five cases, we are
still discussing or waiting for answers (e.g., LibA V and
OpenMVG), of which one pull request is pending.
Other VCCs that have not yet been successfully reproduced
are on hold to report because we can hardly receive a response
from the development teams even if reported. We will not
disclose any VCCs until a security patch is applied, and we
plan to trigger such VCCs with the help of a collaborator or
refer to the related approaches (e.g., [18, 27]) for triggering a
propagated vulnerability; if a VCC is successfully reproduced,
we will immediately report it to the development team.
Limitations. MOVERY leverages some assumptions that can
limit its application. First,MOVERY can discover VCCs when
the source code for the target software is available; if the
control and data dependencies of functions in a binary can be
accurately investigated, we expect that the methodology of
MOVERY may be applied to binary-level VCC discovery.
Second, NVD may provide incorrect CPEs for some
CVEs [8,47], which could impair the accuracy of reconstruct-
ing older vulnerable functions. Although we manually verified
the CPEs (see Section 4.1), this is inefficient for practical use,
and if the correct version range (CPEs) of a vulnerability is
provided, the effectiveness of MOVERY will be improved.
Third, MOVERY considers vulnerabilities within functions
and cannot discover VCCs whose patches are out of functions
(e.g., inter-functional or C preprocessor-dependent vulnera-
bilities). Because MOVERY considers a function as a basic
unit, it cannot address C preprocessor-dependent vulnerabili-
ties, but we are considering addressing inter-functional vul-
nerabilities by including the correlation information of such
inter-functions (e.g., inter-function data flows) into signatures.
Last, even if we set θ to extremes (i.e., 0 and 1), MOVERY
still produces 4 FNs and 3 FPs; FNs were caused by VCCs
with similar semantics but syntactically changed code, and
FPs were produced owing to the syntactically similar func-
tions with different patches applied (see Section 5.1). If
MOVERY can handle Type-4 clones and if abstraction is not
used, such FNs and FPs can be reduced, respectively. How-
ever, this may rather compromise the scalability and accuracy
of MOVERY . Therefore, we retain the current MOVERY ap-
proach, which showed much superior performance than the
existing approaches, and leave solving FPs and FNs that are
independent of θ for future work.
