approach achieves an F1 score of 93.1%, outperforming current
state-of-the-art methods. More importantly, V
ERCATION detected
202 incorrect vulnerable OSS versions in NVD reports.
Received 1 March 2025; revised 14 July 2025; accepted 13 August 2025.
Date of publication 19 August 2025; date of current version 13 February 2026.
This research was supported in part by Beijing Natural Science Foundation
under Grant L234033, in part by the Nati onal Research Foundation, Singa-
pore, and in part by the Smart Nation Group’s Translational R&D under
Grant TRANS2023-TGC02. Recomme nded for acceptance by L. Pasquale.
(Corresponding authors: Shichao Lv; Ting Zhang)
Yiran Cheng, Chaopeng Dong, Shich ao Lv, Zhiqiang Shi, and Limin
Sun are with Institute of Informatio n Engineering, Chinese Academy of
Sciences, Beijing, 1000852, China, and also with the School of Cyber Security,
University of Chinese Academ y of Sciences, Beijing, 1014083, China (e-
mail: chengyiran@iie.ac.cn; dongchaope ng@iie.ac.cn; shizhiqiang@iie.ac.cn;
lvshichao@iie.ac.cn; sunlimin@iie.ac.cn).
Ting Zhang was with the School of Computing and Information Systems,
Singapore Management University, Singapore 178903. She is now with the
Department of Software Systems and Cybersecurity, Monash University,
Clayton, VIC 3800, Australia (e-m ail: ting.zhang@monash.edu).
Lwin Khin Shar and David Lo are with Monash University, Clayton, VIC
3800, Australia (e-mail: lkshar@smu.edu.sg; davidlo@smu.edu.sg).
Shouguo Yang is with Zhongguancun Laboratory, Beijing, 100194, China
(e-mail: yangshouguo@iie.ac.cn).
Digital Object Identiﬁ er 10.1109/TSE.2025.3599581
Index Terms—Open-source software security, vulnerable ver-
sion, large language model.
I. I NTRODUCTION
O
PEN-SOURCE software (OSS) has become increasingly
popular in recent years, thanks to its collaboration and
cost-effectiveness. In the rapidly evolving world of OSS, nu-
merous versions exist due to continuous evolution. While
OSS plays a pivotal role in e xpediting software development,
the integration of particular software versions in development
projects can pose security risks, as these versions may contain
vulnerabilities. Therefore, having a com prehensive knowledge
of vulnerable versions of OSS becomes imperative for software
developers.
Public vulnerability repositories collect vulnerability reports
of software products and disseminate information regarding
the affected versions of the software. The National Vulnera-
bility Database (NVD) [1], recognized as the largest public
vulnerability database, employ s the Common Platform Enu-
meration (CPE) format to store information about vulnerable
versions. However, the NVD often encompasses all versions
before the reportedvulnerability or designates only the versions
mentioned in the report as vulnerable. For instance, CVE-2018-
5785 reported only version v2.3.0 as vulnerable in CPE[2].Y e t ,
upon manual validation, it was uncovered that versions v2.1.1
to v2.3.0 are all susceptible tothe vulnerability. Recent research
[3], [4], [5], [6] indicates that incomplete and incorrect infor-
mation about vulnerable versions is prevalent in such reports.
Therefore, there is a need for an automated method that can
more accurately identify vulnerable versions of released OSS
vulnerabilities.
Two limitations of current approaches. The approaches for
conﬁrming vulnerabilitie s involve utilizing Proof of Concept
(PoC) to trigger the vulnerability . PoC triggers vulnerabilities
through dynamic execution, offering conclusive evidence of
their existence. However, executing a PoC for each software
version is a time-intensive process that requires meticulous
environment setup. Additionally, the PoC input may not be
universal across all vulnerable versions [7]. Therefore, current
researches use static analysis to identify vulnerable versions[8],
[9], [10], [11], [12], [13], [14], [15]. These methods typically
consist of two steps: extracting vulnerability features from code
0098-5589 © 2025 IEEE. All rights reserved, includi ng rights for text and data mining, and train ing of artiﬁcial intelligen ce and similar technologi es.
Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission. See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 22,2026 at 06:45:34 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== Page 002 =====
CHENG et al.: V ERCATION: PRECISE VULNERABLE OPEN-SOURCE SOFTW ARE VERSION IDENTIFICATION 377
snippets and identifying vulnerable versions through code clone
detection of these vulnerability features. Existing methods typi-
cally extract vulnerabilityfeatures using static analysis in which
vulnerability patterns are pre- deﬁned by human experts: some
consider data and control dependencies from the patched code
[12], [13]; some consider using hashes of entire functions [16];
and some consider only the patch code [14], [17]. These meth-
ods generally produce many false positives or false negatives
because of the inherently imprecise nature of static analysis
and the incompleteness of pre -deﬁned vulnerability patterns,
making it difﬁcult to disti nguish vulnerability-relevant code
from irrelevant code (➊). The majority of the methods for code
clone detection are function-level approaches[18] whereas real-
world vulnerability logic is t ypically conﬁned to (often a few)
statements only. There are statement-level code clone detection
methods but they are limited to textual signatures (such as
Levenshtein algorithm [17] and hash value comparison [12],
[16]), without taking into account the code changes that reor-
ganize code while preserving itsfunctionality. These limitations
hinder the effectiveness of vulner ability detection in practical
scenarios (➋).
These limitations primarily stem from the lack of reason-
ing about the context of the vulnerable code being analyzed.
Recently, large language models (LLMs) have shown remark-
able performance in various code-related tasks, including code
generation [19], [20] and code summarization [21], [22].T h i s
strong performance demonstr ates LLMs’ capability to recog-
nize code patterns and correlations at both syntactic and se-
mantic levels. As such, we aim to address the ﬁrst limitation by
leveraging the power of LLMs. Essentially, we hypothesize that
LLMs can be leveraged to address the imprecision of static anal-
ysis and the incompleteness of human-deﬁned vulnerability pat-
terns (➊). However, there is a challenge of Prompt engineering
in leveraging an LLM in our problem domain. The design of
prompts is pivotal in directing the LLM to produce desired
responses. In vulnerability comprehension t asks, well-crafted
prompts should encompass the code for analysis and offer a
lucid description of the analysis objectives. However, in the case
of current LLMs, merely providing all the vulnerable function
codes and directly instructing vulnerability analysis often yields
suboptimal outcomes. When the function code is too long, the
LLM’s ability to understand the rel ationships between distant
parts of the context may diminish[23], [24]. Hence, formulating
prompts to guide LLMs in gener ating desired vulnerability
logic analyses poses a challenge.
Due to variations in programming styles, variable naming,
and structural differences, code clones may manifest different
changes. Furthermore, developers often streamline and refactor
code through method outlini ng. Such code str uctural changes
often mislead code clone detection-based approaches to incor-
rectly identify the vulnerable versions. Furthermore, prior stud-
ies [25], [26] found that vulner abilities can ofte n be localized
to a few key lines, making ﬁle- and function-level vulnerability
detection overly coarse-grained. The limitation motivated us
to propose a statement-level code clone detection approach to
address the second limitation of current approaches ( ➋).
Our approach. We propose V
ERCATION (Vulnerable version
identiﬁcation), a novel method to identify vulnerable versions
of open-source C/C ++ software utilizing a symbiotic com-
bination of static analysis, LLM, and code clone detection.
Given a vulnerability ﬁxing commit ( vfc), V ERCATION ap-
plies program slicing to extract vulnerability-related statements
as vulnerability feat ures, leverages the capability of LLM in
code understanding to reﬁne the extracted features, and per-
forms semantic-level clone detection on vulnerability features
in code changes. This hybrid method effectively overcomes the
practical limitations of existing approaches. More speciﬁcally,
V
ERCATION automatically preprocess the ﬁxing commits and
construct prompts based on the Few-shot and Chain-of-Thought
(CoT) strategies, enabling the LLM to reason with the vulner-
ability and identify the most probable vulnerable statements as
features. Subsequently, VERCATION traces earlier modiﬁcations
of vulnerability feat ures and applies a clone detection method
based on expanded Abstract Syntax Trees (ASTs) to pinpoint
the vulnerability-introducing commit vic. Finally, VERCATION
identiﬁes vulnerable versions between the vic and vfc.
