Method Expansion. Due to code refactoring often outlining
code into a new method, as shown in Listing 2, the codes
in Lines 7-8 are outlined into methods FFMIN. The standard
AST comparison treats the if -condition (Lines 7-8) as com-
pletely different from the FFMIN function call, resulting in
a false vulnerability identiﬁcati on. Therefore, we utilize the
inline technique to expand the method during AST generation to
gather more code behavior within the statements. This involves
obtaining the method deﬁnitio n at the callsite and expanding
the method body inline, resulting in a more comprehensive code
representation. We get the AST for the target ﬁle using Clang
without performing actual compilation. Furthermore, through
recursive retrieval of line numbers for sub-ASTs, we can locate
the sub-AST corresponding to S
v.
AST Normalization. To address structural variations arising
from different developer coding styles, it is essential to nor-
malize the AST. This process m itigates incons istencies and
reduces analytical noise by standardizing code representations.
AST normalization involves conditional struct ure normaliza-
tion, loop structure normalization, and relational operation
normalization.
• Conditional structure can be implemented by if-
else and switch-case. We normalize the structure
of switch-case: switch(expression){case
value1: statement1; break; case
value2: statement2; break; default
statement3;} into a if-else structure: if(exp
== value1) statement1; else if(exp ==
value2) statement2; else statement3.
• Loop structure can be represented as while, do-while
and for structures, we normalize all the loop structure
to while [48].T h e for structure is for(initialize;
condition; increment) {statements;},w e
transform it into while structure: initialize; while
(condition) {statements; increment}.
• Relational operation include commutative and noncom-
mutative operation. Commutative relational operation (i.e.,
+, !=, &&) refers to the operation where commutate the
operands does not change the operation semantics. We
normalize the two operands (left and right child nodes)
of the operation (parent nodes) by alphabetical order. For
example, we transform b+a (b is the left child node) to
a+b(a is the left child node). Noncommutative relational
operation (i.e., >, <=) will change the operation semantic
when commutating the operands, we normalize them by
predeﬁned rules. For example, we transformb<a to a>b
(normalize operation < to >).
AST Similarity. Ultimately, we utilize an in-order traversal
to ascertain whether the commit introduces S by comparing
the AST similarity of S
i and S′
i. First, we perform an in-order
traversal of the ASTs for Si and S′
i, converting the results
into sequences Sqi and S′qi. Then, we calculate the edit dis-
tance between the two sequences as their AST-based similarity
Similarity
B(Sqi,S′qi). We set a similarity threshold ϑ2, and
if SimilarityB(Sqi,S′qi)≥ϑ2, Si and S′
i are considered to
be AST-based similar. If SimilarityB(Sqi,S′qi)<ϑ2,i ti n -
dicates that there is no statement similar to Si in the pre-
modiﬁcation commit. During this process, we classify a commit
as a refactoring commit when it exhibits low edit-distance sim-
ilarity (SimilarityA(Si,S′
i)<ϑ1) but high AST-based similar-
ity (SimilarityB(Sqi,S′qi)≥ϑ2). This indicates that while the
code structure has been signiﬁcantly modiﬁed, the underlying
functionality remains unchanged.
3) Statement Weight Allocation: Not all statements identi-
ﬁed by an LLM contribute equally to vulnerability in triggering
the exploit. To address this, we propose a weight allocation
strategy that prioritizes vulnerable statements based on their in-
vocation of known sensitive functions. The core premise is that
the presence of speciﬁc, high-risk functions within a statement
is a strong indicator of its criticality. We followed a systematic
process to identify and categorize these sensitive functions.
Starting with a comprehensive review of previous studies [49],
[50], we collected existing sensitive function enumerations.
We then conducted a preliminary study of common C/C ++
vulnerabilities to identify the mo st frequent vulnerability cat-
egories, such as buffer overﬂow, integer overﬂow, and use-
after-free, and examined the functions commonly involved in
known vulnerabilities for each type. This process involved three
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 22,2026 at 06:45:34 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== Page 008 =====
CHENG et al.: V ERCATION: PRECISE VULNERABLE OPEN-SOURCE SOFTW ARE VERSION IDENTIFICATION 383
TABLE I
SENSITIVE FUNCTIONS FOR SOME VULNERABILITY TYPES
Vulnerability Type Sensitive Function
Buffer overﬂow strcpy, strncpy, memcpy, memset, read,
write, gets, gets_s, strcat
Integer overﬂow add, multiple, bit-shifting, memcpy
Null pointer derefrence m alloc, calloc, realloc, strdup
Pointer out-of-bounds access memcpy, memmove
Use after free free, malloc, calloc
Format string sprintf, printf, scanf
Arbitrary command execution fopen, popen, system
authors with security expertise: the ﬁrst author proposed the ini-
tial categorization, which was then independently reviewed and
validated by the fourth and ﬁfth authors, with any discrepancies
resolved through discussion. The result is the pre-deﬁned table
(Table I) of sensitive functions for v arious vulnerability types.
We analyze each vulnerable statement extracted by the LLM.
If a statement contains a direct call to any function listed in our
sensitive function table, it is assigned a higher weight, marking
it as a probable vulnerability trigger. For instance, in Listing 1,
Lines 21 and 25 are critical trigger lines.
Furthermore, we conduct an inter-procedural analysis to
identify customized functions that serve as variants of canonical
sensitive functions. For instance, the av_callocfunction on
Line 21 is a variant of thecallocfunction. To discern whether
the customized function Fcontains sensitive functions, we ﬁrst
analyze the deﬁnition and implementation code of function F,
then check if F’s function body calls any sensitive functions
from TableI. If such call relationships are found,Fis also iden-
tiﬁed as a sensitive function. Taking Listing 1 as an example,
considering this is an overﬂow-type vulnerability, we recognize
the av_callocin Line 21 and avio_readfunction in line
25 as sensitive functions.
Parameters. There are two parameters for the weight allocation
of statements, i.e., W
sensitive and Wbase, that could affect the
effectiveness of V ERCATION:1 ) Wbase is the base weight for
initializing the weights of all statements. 2) Wsensitive is the
weight for the statements containing sensitive functions. We set
Wsensitive =2 ×Wbase, Wbase =1.0, the detailed weighting
conﬁguration experiment is in Section V-B.
4) Code Clone Determination: We calculate the sim-
ilarity_score for each code modiﬁcation of the previous
commit with the backtrack. We set a threshold ϑ3,i f
similarity_score<ϑ 3, we determine that there is no code
clone between the pre-modiﬁcation code of this previous com-
mit and the vulnerable statements, thus conﬁrming that this
commit introduced th e vulnerability. Ot herwise, we proceed
with the commit backtrack process.
similarity_score = sim_a×Wsensitive +sim_b×Wbase
a×Wsensitive +b×Wbase
where, Wsensitive and Wbase are predeﬁned weights assigned
to different types of statements; a and b are the total counts
of the statements in Sv corresponding to these weight types;
sim_a and sim_b are the counts of statements that were found
to be similar, either through syntactic or structural analysis.
C. Vulnerable Version Range Determination
To precisely determine the range of software versions af-
fected by a vulnerability, we e mploy a methodology based on
the principle of commit reachability. The core premise is that a
vulnerability, once introduced in a speciﬁc vic, is propagated to
all subsequent commits in its lineage until it is ﬁxed by a vfc.
The basis for our analysis is the concept of reachability,
where a commitAis considered reachable from another commit
B, if commit A is an ancestor of commit B in the project’s
commit graph [17]. As version tags are essentially pointers to
speciﬁc commits, they inherit the reachability properties of the
commits they represent. This allows us to map the vulnerabil-
ity’s presence from the commit level to software versions.
Our methodology formally deﬁnes the set of vulnerable ver-
sions (Vv) as follows: First, we identifyVi, the set of all version
tags reachable from vic. Second, we identify Vf,t h es e to fa l l
version tags reachable from vfc. The vulnerable version set Vv
is then derived from the set difference between these two sets:
Vv =Vi −Vf.
We illustrate the procedure by the case of CVE-2021-
20294 in the Binutils project [51]. For this vulnerability,
the set of versions containing the vic is [ binutils-2_35,
binutils-2_42], while the set of patched versions con-
taining the vfc is [ binutils-2_36, binutils-2_42],
with binutils-2_42being the latest version of the Binutils
project. Therefore, we consider the version tags [ binutils-
2_35, binutils-2_36) as vulnerable. This notation sig-
niﬁes a range that includes binutils-2_35 but excludes
binutils-2_36.
IV . EXPERIMENTAL SETUP
A. Dataset
With conﬁrmation from the author of V-SZZ, it is established
that V-SZZ assumes the deleted lines in the vfc as vulnera-
ble codes and manually labels the ﬁrst introduction of deleted
lines in a vfc as the vic to construct the dataset. However, as
mentioned in Section II-C, deleted lines cannot fully capture
the vulnerability logic. Add itionally, it cannot be guaranteed
that the identiﬁed software version will necessarily exhibit the
vulnerability. Meanwhile, V-SZZ excludes the vfcs that only
contain added lines of code in thei r vulnerability selection, as
the SZZ algorithm relies on tracking deleted lines of code to
locate vic and thus cannot handle such cases. Therefore, we
need to construct a ground-truth dataset with labeled vulnerable
versions or non-vulnerable versions of OSS, which are veriﬁed
by a public PoC.
Vulnerabilities. To build a reliable evaluation dataset, we for-
mulate four vulnerability selection criteria: 1) The vulnerability
must be a CVE reported in an OSS project; 2) The vulnerability
must have publicly available PoCs and patches; 3) The PoC
must be reproducible across different versions of the OSS and
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 22,2026 at 06:45:34 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== Page 009 =====
384 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SOFTW ARE ENGINEERING, VOL. 52, NO. 2, FEBRUARY 2026
TABLE II
GROUND-TRUTH DATASET OVERVIEW
IDX Name #Version #CVE Domain
1 Binutils 157 18 Programming tools
2 cJSON 48 3 JSON parser
3 FFmpeg 405 31 Multimedia processing
4 Jasper 99 12 Image coding toolkit
5 Libarchive 51 10 Streaming processing
6 Libcaca 7 3 Graphics library
7 Liblouis 69 6 Braille translator
8 Libming 14 9 Flash library
9 Libtiff 78 7 Image tools
10 Libxml2 233 12 XML toolkit
11 OpenJPEG 25 8 Image codec
12 Pcre2 25 3 Regular expression engine
Total - 1,211 122 -
4) The OSS must have a certain number of versions for compre-
hensive analysis. Based on the selection criteria, we established
a dataset comprising 122 publicly disclosed CVEs associated
with public PoC and patches, spanning 12 prevalent OSS, as
detailed in Table II. The published date of these CVEs from
2016 to 2025. Meanwhile, the co llected vulnerabilities cover
13 common CWE types. Some vulnerabilities are classiﬁed
into multiple CWEs. For example, CVE-2023-1579 belongs to
both CWE-119 (Improper Restriction of Operations within the
Bounds of a Memory Buffer) and CWE-787 (Out-of-bounds
Write). Among the dataset, vulnerabilities belonging to CWE-
787 (Out-of-bounds Write) are the most numerous, accounting
for 20.27%.
Patches. We acquired security patches by crawlingvfc from the
OSS Git repositories. In total, thevfcs cover 2,287 modiﬁcation
lines containing 1,532 insertion lines and 755 deletion lines.
Among these, 289 lines are unrelated to vulnerability (e.g.,
modiﬁcations in the ChangeLog ﬁle). On average, each vfc has
21.8 modiﬁcation lines. The number of added lines signiﬁcantly
exceeds that of deleted lines, underscoring t he critical impor-
tance of incorporating additional code into the analysis process.
Among these, 10.3% are large vfcs (the number of modiﬁca-
tion lines exceeding 50). Notably, 79 vfcs (64.75%) contain
both code insertion and deletion, 29 vfcs exclusively insertions
(23.77%), and 15 vfcs solely involve deletions (12.30%).
Verifying & Labeling. We apply the following process to
systematically label the ground-truth dataset:
(i) The ﬁxed version can be determined through the ofﬁcial
release of vfcs. We conﬁrm whether versions following
the ﬁxed version are vulnerable by checking if they con-
tain the patch code.
(ii) For the remaining version, we obtained the public PoC
of each vulnerability from the Git issues or by referring
to OSS sites.
(iii) To validate the PoC on each corresponding OSS version,
we establish the dependent environment for each OSS
version and compile the libraries.
(iv) During the PoC input testing process for each vulnerabil-
ity, we analyze the trigger ing conditions and dangerous
behaviors of the vulnerability and label the statements
that trigger the vulnerability as S
trigger. For versions
where the PoC cannot trigger th e vulnerability (as some
PoCs are only applicable to certain speciﬁc versions), we
check whether the version contains Strigger to label the
version.
In our experimental setup, we took 10 days to build the software
and version pool. Then we took 30 days to build the ground-
truth dataset, including the time taken to establish the dependent
environment for each software version, as well as the time to
perform vulnerability veriﬁcation and labeling.
B. Baseline and Metrics
Baseline. For the vulnerable version identiﬁcation task, we
selected the NVD [52], along with SOTAs: SZZ-based methods
(AG-SZZ [53],B - S Z Z[54],V - S Z Z[17]) and clone-based meth-
ods (V0Finder [16], V1SCAN [27], VERJava [28] and Vision
[29]) for accuracy comparison. We gathered the vulnerable
version range of each CVE from CPE to evaluate the NVD’s
accuracy.
The basic idea of SZZ algorithms is to backtrack the commit
history to locate the earliest commit that introduces the dele-
tion lines removed by security patches. We use different SZZ
algorithms to identify the vic, with the versions between the vic
and the vfc considered vulnerable. Since these algorithms trace
deleted lines individually, ins tances may arise where multiple
vic are identiﬁed, and in such cases, we select the earliest one
as the detection outcome.
V0Finder, V1SCAN, VERJava, and Vision are clone-based
methods. We use their techniques to detect code clone for each
version and identify the affected versions of the vulnerabilities
in the ground-truth dataset. Because VERJava and Vision are
applied in Java, we modiﬁed the code to make them compatible
with C/C++.
For V
ERCATION, we selected thresholds ϑ1 =0.9, ϑ2 =
0.8 and ϑ3 =0.7 (related experiments are introduced in Sec-
tion V-C). In terms of the performance of vulnerability code
extraction, we compared the differences between combining
various LLMs (GPT-4, CodeLlama-13B, DeepSeek-V3) and
using the static analysis tool Joern parser [33] alone.
Metrics. To evaluate the accuracy, we employ the follow-
ing three metrics, i.e., true positives ( TP ), false positives
(FP ), false negatives ( FN), precision (
#TP
#TP +#FP ), recall
( #TP
#TP +#FN ) and F1-score ( 2∗precision∗recall
precision+recall ), to measure the
accuracy of the above methodologies. These metrics are also
used in previous studies to evaluate the technique’s performance
[9], [17]. Because of signiﬁcant differences in the version count
for distinct OSS, we compute the precision and recall for each
OSS and report the average of precisions and recalls ﬁnally.
C. Implementation Details
We utilized Joern [33] for program slicing and developed
Python scripts to extract control and data dependencies, out-
putting the sliced statement s as dangerous ﬂows . We explored
three LLM models, GPT-4 [30], CodeLlama-13B [31], and
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 22,2026 at 06:45:34 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== Page 010 =====
CHENG et al.: V ERCATION: PRECISE VULNERABLE OPEN-SOURCE SOFTW ARE VERSION IDENTIFICATION 385
DeepSeek-V3 [32] for vulnerable code extraction. We use the
public API developed by OpenAI to perform the experiment in
GPT-4. The API version is GPT-4-0613 published in 2023.
CodeLlama was created through further ﬁne-tuning of Llama 2
on speciﬁc code datasets. We selected the 13B parameter model
(codellama/CodeLlama-13b-hf) from the CodeLlama
model series. The API of DeepSeek-V3 was published in July
2024. We set the temperature parameter to 1.0. To account for
the stochastic nature of LLM outputs, we generate 10 inde-
pendent responses for each CVE [55]. We employ a majority
voting strategy where statements appearing in ≥ 6 out of 10
runs are included in the ﬁnal vulnerable statement set for eval-
uation. The maximum size of tokens is 1,024. We deployed
the Codellama model on our server with four NVIDIA RTX
A5000 GPUs. Similar to GPT-4, the temperature parameter is
set to 1.0, and the maximum size of tokens is set to 1,024.
Subsequently, we apply weight allocation strategies to extract
vulnerable statements using Python scripts. For threshold se-
lection, we used θ
1 = 0.9, θ2 = 0.8 and θ3 = 0.7 based on
grid search optimization described in our sensitivity analysis. In
the code change detection, we utilize the Clang 10.0.0 tool for
function expansion (inline optimization) and AST generation
of C/C ++ code. Speciﬁcally, we use the -fsyntax-only option
to perform syntax checking without actual compilation. We
then develop Python scripts to achieve AST normalization and
similarity comparison. Overall, we constructed our system with
6K LoC in Python.
V. E
VALUATION
In this section, we evaluate the performance of the proposed
VERCATION by answering the following research questions
(RQs).
• RQ1. Overall Effectiveness: How does the overall per-
formance of V ERCATION compare against state-of-the-art
vulnerable version identiﬁcation methods?
• RQ2. Architectural Contribution: H o wd ot h ek e ya r -
chitectural choices in V ERCATION—the use of an LLM,
static analysis, and statement weighting—contribute to its
performance?
• RQ3. Component Robustness: How accurate and robust is
VERCATION’s statement-level code clone detection?
• RQ4. Real-World Application: What are the effects of
applying VERCATION in the real world scenarios?
A. RQ1: Overall Effectiveness
We ﬁrst compare V ERCATION against the NVD and SOTA
methods. Table III shows the vulnerable version identiﬁcation
