Approach
V0Finder [16] 0.829 0.745 0.785
V1SCAN [27] 0.863 0.724 0.788
VERJava [28] 0.891 0.247 0.386
Vision [29] 0.842 0.881 0.861
-V ERCATION 0.918 0.945 0.931
vulnerable without speciﬁc analysis. This situation exists in 18
CVEs (15%) of the ground truth. For instance, security experts
found a buffer overﬂow risk exists in Libtiff 4.4.0,b u t
NVD simply reported the versions of Libtiff<4.4.0were
exposed in vulnerability. In reality, the vulnerable version range
is Libtiff<4.4.0 and ≥4.0.0.
The reason for low recall in NVD can be summarized into
two types: (i) NVD only reported the version in which vulner-
abilities were found. For e xample, CVE-2017-14152 [57] was
found in OpenJPEG 2.2.0, then NVD reported the affected
version was only 2.2.0, whereas the real vulnerable version
range was 2.2.0-2.2.1. The problem exists in 57 CVEs (47%) of
the ground truth. (ii) Some vulnerabilities are not ﬁxed promptly
after disclosure but are addressed after several versions have
been released. These vulnerable versions can be overlooked if
NVD does not update the version information. For example,
CVE-2021-33815 [58] was discovered in FFmpeg4.4 but was
ﬁxed in version 5.0. Due to the lack of timely tracking of
the ﬁx information, NVD overlooked the vulnerable versions
4.4.1-4.4.4.
2) Comparison with SZZ-based Methods: The basic idea of
SZZ algorithms is to backtrack the commit history to locate
the earliest commit that introduces the deletion lines removed
by patches. Regarding F1-score, V
ERCATION improves the best-
performing baseline V-SZZ by 16.2%. And the difference be-
tween the F1 of B-SZZ and AG-SZZ is small (0.446 vs. 0.466).
We afﬁrmed that there are two main causes of false alarms in
these approaches:
(i) The line mapping algorithm based on edit distance does
not consider the behavior of the source code. As shown in
Listing 2, The deleted lines were encapsulated within the
added functions, and in fact, they have the same behavior.
Line mapping algorithms failed in these cases, unable to
identify the true vic.
(ii) The SZZ algorithm treats each deleted line as an inde-
pendent origin for backtracking, resulting in multiple vic
being identiﬁed. For example, the security patch of CVE-
2020-35965 [60] from FFmpeghas 5 deleted lines. The
true vulnerability logic lies in the lack of checking the size
of ymax before executing the memset zero operation,
potentially resulting in out -of-bounds writes to memory.
Our method utilizes a weight ed allocation approach to
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 22,2026 at 06:45:34 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== Page 011 =====
386 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SOFTW ARE ENGINEERING, VOL. 52, NO. 2, FEBRUARY 2026
increase the weight of memsetoperation, thus backtrac-
ing to the correct vic. However, SZZ algorithms sepa-
rately backtrack different del eted lines, resulting in the
identiﬁcation of 5 different vic, signiﬁcantly reducing the
precision.
3) Comparison with Clone-based Methods: In the same
dataset, V0Finder achieved a precision of 82.9% and a recall of
74.5%. There are two reasons for the inaccuracies of V0Finder:
1) V0Finder generates a hash value for the entire vulnerable
function as a vulnerability ﬁngerprint. This ﬁngerprint is coarse
because the vulnerable function contains a lot of vulnerability-
irrelevant code, introducing a signiﬁcant amount of noise. 2)
V0Finder considers the function containing all deleted patch
code as a vulnerable function clone. This approach also over-
looked the inserted code of the security patch.
V1SCAN achieves an F1-score of 0.788, combining version-
based detection with code-based detection methods. For
version-based detection, V1SCAN obtains CVE-affected OSS
versions from NVD’s CPE database and ﬁlters out functions
belonging to versions outside the CVE’s affected range. As
we mentioned earlier, there are many errors in NVD’s affected
version information, which consequently affects V1SCAN’s
detection results. For code-based detection, V1SCAN primarily
relies on text similarity comparisons, overlooking deeper rela-
tionships between code snippets. When functions are refactored
or outlined into new functions, this approach fails to identify
vulnerability-related code, resulting in false negatives.
Table III reports a low recall of 0.247 in VERJava. VERJava
has a fundamental issue in determining vulnerable versions:
it requires the target version’s code to simultaneously meet
two strict conditions - perfect matching of deleted lines in
the vfc (delSim ≥ 1.0) and the absence of most added patch
code (addSim ≤ 0.9). In project development, code frequently
undergoes changes, including variable name modiﬁcations and
function refactoring. This means that even versions that con-
tain vulnerabilities are unlikely to meet such strict matching
requirements due to code evolution. As a result, many vulnera-
ble versions are incorrectly identiﬁed as safe versions, leading
to serious false negatives. Another problem with VERJava is
similar to V0Finder, it incorrectly assumes that deleted lines in
the patch represent vulnerable features.
Vision achieves an F1 of 0.861, combining critical statement
selection with weighted dependency graphs. Vision relies on
taint analysis as a ﬁrst step for critical statement selection.
However, this approach often includes many statements that
are control or data-dependent but not actually relevant to the
vulnerability, which consequently affects Vision’s precision in
extracting vulnerable code. Moreover, Vision’s analysis is lim-
ited to Java packages from Maven repositories, which may not
fully capture the vulnerability patterns in other languages.
Accuracy of V
ERCATION. VERCATION demonstrates consis-
tent performance across most projects, achieving high precision
(> 0.90) on 9 out of 12 projects and perfect recall (1.00) on
several projects, including cJSON and Libcaca. Notably, while
baseline methods like V-SZZ and V0Finder show signiﬁcant
performance ﬂuctuations across different projects, V
ERCATION
maintains more stable performance. For instance, on the Binutils
project, which has complex version management and frequent
refactoring, Vercation achieves a 0.95 F1 score, outperforming
V-SZZ (0.47 F1 score) and V0Finder (0.88 F1 score).
Though V
ERCATION performed well in the version identiﬁ-
cation, it still failed to identify inducing commits for a small
number of vulnerabilities. One reason is that in some cases,
slight modiﬁcations in the AST have little impact on the sim-
ilarity between the AST before and after the modiﬁcation, but
are crucial in introducing vulnerabilities. Another reason is that
despite using the weight allocation strategies, there are still
some statements related to patch variables that are not relevant
to the vulnerability but have been assigned high weights. The
above two reasons may incorrectly identify vic, leading to a
misidentiﬁcation of the vulnerable version range.
In our evaluation, 5.7% of traced commit histories involved
merge commits with multiple parents. For example, in CVE-
2022-1355 [61] from Libtiff, the vul nerability was introduced
in a feature branch that was later merged into the main de-
velopment line, creating a non-linear history with two parent
commits at the merge point. For these cases involving non-
linear histories, V
ERCATION achieved a precision of 91.2% and
recall of 92.5%, demonstratin g that our multi-path traversal
strategy effectively handles branching scenarios without signif-
icant performance degradation.
RQ1:V ERCATION demonstrates superior performance in vul-
nerable version identiﬁcation on our ground-truth dataset,
achieving an F1 score of 93.1%. This signiﬁcantly outper-
forms SOTA works. The prompt strategy combining Few-
shot and CoT techniques performs the best.
B. RQ2: Architectural Contribution
1) Program Slicing & LLM Ablation Study: We conducted
ablation experiments by separately removing the program slic-
ing component (implemented by Joern) and the LLM compo-
nent (DeepSeek) from phase 1.
Static Analysis Only. As depicted in Table IV, the effective-
ness of Joern in extr acting vulnerability logic is signiﬁcantly
inferior to that harnessed by the power of LLM models, with
an F1 score 46.9% less than Joern + DeepSeek (Few-shot +
CoT). This discrepancy primarily stems from Joern’s reliance
on ﬁxed dependency extraction patterns, leading to the retrieval
of numerous statements irrelevant to vulnerabilities. As shown
in Fig. 5(a), using only the static analysis tool Joern parser
for program slicing extracts statements on Lines 3, 7-8, 11-
12. While these statements are related to control ﬂow, they are
not directly relevant to the vulnerability. This illustrates how
static analysis alone can include extraneous information that
is not crucial to understanding th e speciﬁc vulner ability logic.
Meanwhile, we found that Joern cannot accurately address
pointer structure dataﬂows, thus missing some statements that
have data or control dependencies. To elaborate, on average,
Joern extracts 3.64 times more vulnerable statements per CVE
compared to combined DeepSeek.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 22,2026 at 06:45:34 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== Page 012 =====
CHENG et al.: V ERCATION: PRECISE VULNERABLE OPEN-SOURCE SOFTW ARE VERSION IDENTIFICATION 387
Fig. 5. The vulnerable statements extracted by different methods.
TABLE IV
PERFORMANCE OF LLMSI N VULNERABILITY LOGIC COMPREHENSION
