introduction point [59], [9].
VII. R
ELATED WORK
A. Vulnerability Fixing Commit Analysis
Several studies have focused on analyzing vulnerability ﬁx-
ing commit (VFC) to extract vulnerability features, which can
be used for various purposes such as vulnerability detection,
classiﬁcation, and affected version identiﬁcation. VulPecker
[70] extracts code patterns from VFC to detect similar vul-
nerabilities in other software versions. SySeVR [71] uses a
systematic approach to extract syntax- and semantic-based vul-
nerability features from patches. VulDeePecker [72] leverages
deep learning t echniques to learn vulnerability patterns from
code gadgets extracted from vulnerability ﬁxing commits. Most
existing VFC analysis methods rely heavily on predeﬁned rules
or patterns, which may not capture the full context of vulner-
abilities. V
ERCATION incorporates VFC analysis by leveraging
LLMs to understand the context of code changes in ﬁxing com-
mits, potentially capturing more nuanced vulnerability features.
B. Vulnerable Version Detection for OSS
Several approaches have been proposed for vulnerable ver-
sion identiﬁcation. V-SZZ [17] uses the SZZ algorithm to back-
track vfcs and identify vulnerability-introducing changes. MVP
[12] employs program slicing to extract vulnerability and patch
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 22,2026 at 06:45:34 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== Page 017 =====
392 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SOFTW ARE ENGINEERING, VOL. 52, NO. 2, FEBRUARY 2026
signatures, then uses these to identify potentially vulnerable
functions. V0Finder [16] generates ﬁngerprints for vulnerable
functions and uses a clone-based technique to detect vulner-
able versions across different software releases. VCCFinder
[73] uses machine learning techniques to identify vulnerability-
contributing commits. VUDDY [74] proposes a scalable ap-
proach for vulnerable code clone detection in large-scale code
bases. Existing approaches often rely on predeﬁned patterns
and syntactic-level analysis, leading to imprecision in vulner-
ability characterization and code clone detection. V
ERCATION
combines static analysis with LLM for code understanding and
introduces AST-based code clone detection to address the code
structure modiﬁcation problem.
C. Code Refactoring Detection
Some researchers conducted studies on the characteristics of
code refactoring not altering the code behavior of the code and
have proposed detection methods. MLRefScanner [75] detects
refactoring commits in Python projects by analyzing commit
history and extracting features that represent refactoring activ-
ities without altering code behavior. Abid et al. [76] perform a
study outlining different levels ofrefactoring from code level to
architecture and discuss the importance of maintaining behavior
during refactoring. Eman et al. [77] focus on how refactor-
ing is integrated into the code review process while ensuring
that the original software behavior is preserved. Existing code
refactoring detection methods primarily focus on high-level
changes like renaming and method/class moves. Our approach,
however, targets statement-level changes through ﬁne-grained
AST expansion and normalization, including inline function
expansion during AST generation.
D. Code Clone Detection
Some SOTA techniques utilize static analysis to conduct code
clone detection. SCDetector [78] feeds tokens with graph detail
into a Siamese architecture neural network to train a code clone
detector. Fang et al.[18] propose a joint code representation that
applies fusion embedding techniques to learn hidden features
of source codes, then train a supervised deep learning model
to detect functional code clones. FCDetection [18] generates
AST and CFG representations and uses Word2vec to embed
these features into vectors. Then the fused feature vectors are
input into a deep neural network model for classiﬁcation of code
clones.
VIII. C
ONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK
This paper proposed V ERCATION, an approach designed for
vulnerable version identiﬁcation of open-source C/C ++ soft-
ware. Our approach introduces two key innovations: leveraging
LLMs to enhance the extraction of vulnerability-related state-
ments and employing code clone detection based on expanded
and normalized ASTs. Experimental results on our dataset of
122 CVEs across 12 popular open-source projects validate that
V
ERCATION surpasses existing techniques for vulnerable ver-
sion identiﬁcation, demonstrating notable improvements in both
precision and recall. V ERCATION’s novelty lies not in individ-
ual techniques but in the systematic integration of semantic
analysis and methodological innovations in LLM application.
The combination creates a qualitatively different approach that
advances the state-of-the-art in both accuracy and practical
applicability, opening new research directions for AI-assisted
software security analysis.
In the future, we plan to empirically validate V
ERCATION on
a broader set of languages (Java, Python, JavaScript, and PHP)
to conﬁrm its effectiveness. Furthermore, we are interested in
exploring integrating inter-procedural analysis techniques to
enhance the detection of cross-functional vulnerability patterns.
A
CKNOWLEDGMENT
We thank the anonymous reviewers for their insightful com-
ments. Any opinions, ﬁndings and conclusions or recommen-
dations expressed in this material are those of the author(s)
and do not reﬂect the views of National Research Foundation,
Singapore or the Smart Nation Group.
