// Adamic Adar
MATCH (c1:cwe{id: "308"})
MATCH (c2:capec{id: "151"})
RETURN gds.alpha.linkprediction.adamicAdar(c1, c2) AS
score
// Common Neighbors
MATCH (c1:cwe{id: "308"})
MATCH (c2:capec{id: "151"})
RETURN gds.alpha.linkprediction.commonNeighbors(c1, c2) AS
score
Fig. 6. Cypher queries for selected link discovery algorithms between CWE
and CAPEC nodes.
Notations: u and v denote two nodes in the knowledge graph,
and Γ(u) represents the set of neighbors directly connected to
node u.
• |Γ(u)| is the degree of node u (i.e., the number of its
neighbors).
• Γ(u) ∩ Γ(v) is the set of common neighbors of u and v.
• w is an individual node belonging to the set of common
neighbors.
• The functions assign similarity scores, where a higher score
indicates a greater structural proximity between u and v,
and thus a higher likelihood of an unobserved link.
Other metrics such as Preferential Attachment (which as-
sumes high-degree nodes are more likely to connect), Resource
Allocation (a variant of Adamic–Adar that weights neighbors
by the inverse of their degree), Same Community (binary score
based on graph community detection), and T otal Neighbors
(combined neighborhood size) can also be applied to enrich
the analysis.
By applying these measures, we can infer plausible but
unobserved relationships—such as identifying CWEs that may
be associated with CAPECs. These insights enable analysts
to anticipate potential threat paths before they are explicitly
reported in advisories, supporting proactive defense.
IV . E M P I R I C A L EV A L UAT I O N
W e demonstrate how our knowledge graph enables com-
prehensive and actionable cyber threat intelligence analysis,
supporting end-to-end workﬂows. W e highlight mappings from
top software weaknesses to A TT&CK techniques; technique-
centric views that connect to groups, tools, and mitiga-
tions; and group-to-vulnerability traversals for Scattered Spi-
der (G1015) and V olt T yphoon (G1017). Case studies on CISA
advisories and link scoring further demonstrate how the graph
discovers missing relationships.
A. T op 25 Software CWEs to ATT&CK T echniques
W e leveraged our automated knowledge graph pipeline to
connect CWEs with MITRE A TT&CK techniques through
CAPEC attack patterns. In particular, we focused on the CWE
T op 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesseslist, an annually
curated resource maintained by the MITRE Corporation in
collaboration with the U.S. Department of Homeland Secu-
rity (DHS) and the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security
Agency (CISA). This list highlights the most common and
impactful software weaknesses, based on real-world data such
as CVEs, CVSS scores, and their prevalence in vulnerability
databases. It helps developers and security teams prioritize
mitigation efforts by identifying the most frequently exploited
programming ﬂaws and guiding secure software design. Using
automated graph traversals, we observe that not all 25 CWEs
yield direct mappings to A TT&CK techniques.
As an illustrative example, shown in Fig. 7 and T able II,
consider CWE-20 (Improper Input V alidation). It is linked to
multiple A TT&CK techniques such as T1539: Steal Web
Session Cookie and T1027: Obfuscated Files
or Information. This mapping underscores the critical-
ity of input validation failures: adversaries routinely exploit
unchecked inputs to manipulate control ﬂow , inject malicious
payloads, or bypass security mechanisms, making this CWE
foundational to a wide range of attacks. Similarly , CWE-
94 (Code Injection) maps directly to T1027.006: HTML
Smuggling, highlighting how code injection vulnerabilities
directly enable adversaries to deliver and execute obfuscated
malicious code, often as part of initial access or delivery
phases. These cases illustrate how our knowledge graph pro-
duces multi-hop paths from critical software weaknesses to
threat actor methodologies, bridging the gap between software
engineering errors and operational TTPs.
By enumerating and analyzing such mappings, defenders
can proactively prioritize mitigation efforts around weakness
classes most commonly tied to adversary behaviors, ensuring
that secure coding practices, patching strategies, and monitor-
ing controls align with real-world attack techniques.
Fig. 7. Mapping of a top software CWE (CWE-287) to its corresponding
CAPECs (light blue circles) and A TT&CK T echniques (light green circles).
B. ATT&CK T echniques, Groups, and Mitigations
Our pipeline centers each A TT&CK technique within its
surrounding ecosystem by materializing typed, cross-domain
relationships to the entities that cyber analysts regularly
use: adversary groups (intrusion sets and campaigns), op-
erational capabilities (tools and malware), and defensive
knowledge (courses of action/mitigations, data sources, and
