in the target program by detecting code clones between the
vulnerability database and the program.
Here, we can determine which vulnerability VUDDY is
capable of discovering. As illustrated in Fig. 5(a), if setK
is the set of every known vulnerability, thenK ⊂ V where
V is the set consisting of all vulnerabilities. Naturally, we
can regard U, the set of unknown vulnerabilities, andK as
being disjoint, so that K ∪ U = V and K ∩ U = φ.I fa
clone detector C only considers exact (Type-1) clones, then
the coverage ofC is K. However, by the use of our abstraction
strategy, the coverage of an abstract clone detectorˆC can also
cover vulnerabilities inK′ as depicted in Fig. 5(b), which is
a set of abstract vulnerabilities. This means that VUDDY can
detect known vulnerabilities, as well as variants of the known
vulnerabilities, which are inK′, where|K′∩U| >0. K′∩U is
the set of unknown code clones discovered by VUDDY . The
examples are provided in subsection IX-C.
.8
9
(a) K and U are disjoint
8
9
8.͛
(b) K′ and U intersect
Fig. 5: Relationship between known, unknown and variants of
known vulnerabilities.
VI. I MPLEMENTA TION
We implemented VUDDY2 in Python 2.7.11, and the robust
parser with the ANTLR parser generator 4.5.3 [35]. In this
section, we discuss issues related to the implementation.
A. Generating a robust parser
One intuitive approach for obtaining functions from a
program and analyzing their syntax is to use a compiler.
However, the use of parsers integrated in compilers is evidently
restricted to the occasions when a working build environment
is available. In addition, even if we succeed to replicate the
working environment, the source code may not be complete
or may contain syntax errors, which blights the whole parsing
procedure [36], [37]. Thus, we ensure that our method is
feasible and sufﬁciently general to be used in practice by
generating and utilizing a robust parser for C/C++ based on
the concept of fuzzy parsing with the utilization of island
grammars [38], [39]. This parser does not require a build
environment or header information, which means it is able to
parse an individual ﬁle, and does not fail when it encounters
syntactic errors during parsing. Even when a broken or partial
code is given, it parses as much as it understands.
B. Selection of hash function
Any hash function can be used for ﬁngerprint generation.
However, we impose three constraints that need to be con-
sidered in order to maximize the scalability and speed of
2Our implementation is available at https://iotcube.net/
our approach. First, to prevent two or more different and
irrelevant functions from having the same hash value, it is
necessary to avoid hash collision as much as possible. Second,
building the smallest possible ﬁngerprint dictionary requires
us to choose a hash function that produces the fewest possible
bits of hash values. Third, to minimize the hashing time, the
chosen function needs to be fast, and its implementation well-
optimized. For VUDDY , we selected the MD5 hash algorithm,
which completed hashing 20 million randomly generated al-
phanumeric strings with their size ranging from 51 to 1,000
bytes, in only 15 seconds without collision. Non-cryptographic
hash algorithms such as CityHash [40], MurmurHash [41], and
SpookyHash [42] were also considered, but they required a
similar amount of time for the experiment. Thus, we decided
to adopt MD5 which is provided as a built-in method of
the Python Hashlib package, rather than taking unidentiﬁed
risks by using third party hash libraries. Although we are
aware that the MD5 hash algorithm suffers from cryptographic
weaknesses [43], two facts make MD5 sufﬁcient: Our use of
MD5 is not for cryptography; and VUDDY is designed such
that hash collision occurs only when two different functions
have identical lengths. Note that we exclude the use of fuzzy
hash algorithms, which produce similar hash values for similar
plaintexts, as distinguishing slightly modiﬁed clones from
semantically changed code presents another problem.
C. Dictionary implementation
The ﬁngerprint dictionary is a crucial data structure in the
implementation of VUDDY because it dramatically reduces
the search space of possible clones and thus expedites the
whole process. As previously stated, a dictionary is an asso-
ciative container that maps keys to values. We chose to use
the built-in dictionary data structure of Python, with which the
average time complexity isO(1)for theinoperation to check
the existence of an element among the keys of a dictionary,
regardless of the number of elements.
VII. E V ALUA TION
We proceed to evaluate the efﬁcacy and effectiveness of
VUDDY in two aspects: scalability and accuracy, by compar-
ing VUDDY with other state-of-the-art techniques.
A. Experimental setup and dataset
System environment:We evaluated the execution and detec-
tion performance of VUDDY by conducting experiments on a
machine running Ubuntu 16.04, with a 2.40 GHz Intel Zeon
processor, 32 GB RAM, and 6 TB HDD.
Dataset: We collected our target C/C++ programs from
GitHub. These programs had at least one star and were pushed
at least during the period from January 1st, 2016 to July
28, 2016. Repositories that are starred (i.e., bookmarked by
GitHub users) are popular and inﬂuential repositories. The
existence of a push record during the ﬁrst half of 2016 implies
that the repository is active. The repository cloning process
required 7 weeks to ﬁnish, gathering 25,253 Git repositories
which satisfy the aforementioned two conditions. In addition
602
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:36:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 