method takes variable granularityl, which always equals the
length of a function. This is highly advantageous compared to
approaches that utilize a ﬁxed granularity-level, e.g., ReDeBug
or CCFinder, in terms of memory usage. Table V shows the
amount of memory used when the functions in our vulner-
ability database are preprocessed. Whenl was taken as the
granularity level, the least memory was used because only one
ﬁngerprint was generated per function. When the granularity
g was 4 LoC, it consumed 651 MB of memory for processing
and storing the ﬁngerprints of ﬁne-grained functions. This is
considerable overhead, considering that the total size of ﬁles
in the vulnerability database is 21 MB (see subsection V-A).
Formally, l − g +1 ﬁngerprints were generated for each
function, which led an increase in the amount of memory
space required. It can be observed in Table V that when
the granularity level is increased, memory use decreases.
However, this does not necessarily imply that the use of
larger granularity reduces memory usage. Instead, the main
reason for the lower memory usage is that functions shorter
than the ﬁxed granularity are not processed. For example, if
we take 100 LoC as the granularity level, functions with a
length is shorter than 100 cannot be processed, and are thus
discarded. Therefore, we can conﬁdently argue that function-
level granularity promotes memory efﬁciency more than other
ﬁxed granularity levels.
3) Accuracy: Considering the former discussion from a
different standpoint, ﬁxed granularity can impair the accuracy
of an approach. In other words, an approach that attempts
to detect vulnerable code clones using granularityg cannot
detect clones with a length smaller than g, which causes
false negatives. As a remedy, we could generate ﬁngerprints
for every possibleg value and search for the corresponding
ﬁngerprint from every dictionary whenever it fails to detect
functions smaller than the ﬁxed granularity, which causes a
tremendous amount of overhead. Moreover, it is obvious that
the false positive rate increases when we use ﬁner granularity,
as shown in subsection VII-C. The false positive rate is directly
related to the trustworthiness of a vulnerable clone detector.
Vulnerable clone detectors that report numerous false alarms
do not actually help developers identify the problems in their
code; instead, they lead to increased efforts to routinely check
meaningless alarms. In this respect, we believe that our design
of VUDDY achieves the right balance between accuracy and
scalability.
B. Room for speedup
Currently, a large portion of the overhead is concentrated
in the parsing step. When generating a ﬁngerprint of Android
ﬁrmware, VUDDY spent 973 seconds (95.1 %) out of 1023
seconds only for parsing. To resolve this performance bottle-
neck, we also implemented a faster version of VUDDY , called
VUDDY -fast, which utilizes regular expression to identify and
analyze functions. VUDDY -fast required only 1 hour and 17
minutes for generating ﬁngerprint dictionary of 1 BLoC input
in Table I, but it identiﬁed 9.7 % less functions. As one of the
future works, we plan to improve the performance of parser
by optimizing the grammar and leveraging parser generator
which is faster than ANTLR.
TABLE V: Memory use when preprocessing functions in the
vulnerability database with the given granularity.l refers to
the LoC of a function.
Property Granularity (LoC) Memory use (MB)
V ariable l 48
Fixed
4 651
10 496
40 172
100 49
C. Open service
In April 2016, we launched an open web service via web
with which anyone can use VUDDY to inspect their programs.
A number of open source developers, device manufacturers,
and commercial product developers tested more than 14 BLoC
for 11 months, and VUDDY detected 144,496 vulnerable
functions. For lack of space, the results and insights drawn
from the service is described in the Appendix.
XI. C ONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK
In this paper, we proposed VUDDY , which is an approach
for scalable and accurate vulnerable code clone discovery. The
design principles of VUDDY are directed towards extending
scalability through function-level granularity and a length
ﬁlter, while maintaining accuracy so that it can afford to detect
vulnerable clones from the rapidly expanding pool of open
source software. VUDDY adopts a vulnerability preserving
abstraction scheme which enables it to discover 24 % more
unknown variants of vulnerabilities. We implemented VUDDY
to demonstrate its efﬁcacy and effectiveness. The results
show that VUDDY can actually detect numerous vulnerable
clones from a large code base with unprecedented scalability
and accuracy. In the case study, we presented several cases
discovered by VUDDY , in which vulnerable functions remain
unﬁxed for years and propagate to other programs.
Tremendous number of vulnerable code fragments will
continue to be propagated to countless programs and devices.
We strongly believe that VUDDY is a must-have approach to
be used for securing various software when scalability and
accuracy is required.
Our work can be extended in multiple directions. Firstly, we
plan to continue improving the performance of VUDDY by
reﬁning the parser and expanding the vulnerability database.
It will boost the speed of VUDDY and increase detec-
tion rate. Moreover, we will try to combine our approach
with other types of vulnerability-detecting techniques (e.g.,
fuzzers), which will allow a more sophisticated detection of
vulnerability.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
We thank the anonymous reviewers for their insightful
comments to improve the quality of the paper. We are also
grateful to Donghyeok Kim for his contribution on the parser
generation, and Taebeom Kim for his help on the manual
inspection process. This work was supported by Institute for
Information & communications Technology Promotion (IITP)
grant funded by the Korea government (MSIP) (No.R0190-16-
2011, Development of Vulnerability Discovery Technologies
for IoT Software Security).
609
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:36:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 