VUDDY: A Scalable Approach for Vulnerable Code
Clone Discovery
Seulbae Kim, Seunghoon Woo, Heejo Lee∗, Hakjoo Oh
Department of Computer Science and Engineering
Korea University
Seoul, Korea
{seulbae, seunghoonwoo, heejo, hakjoooh}@korea.ac.kr
Abstract—The ecosystem of open source software (OSS) has
been growing considerably in size. In addition, code clones - code
fragments that are copied and pasted within or between software
systems - are also proliferating. Although code cloning may
expedite the process of software development, it often critically
affects the security of software because vulnerabilities and bugs
can easily be propagated through code clones. These vulnerable
code clones are increasing in conjunction with the growth of OSS,
potentially contaminating many systems. Although researchers
have attempted to detect code clones for decades, most of these
attempts fail to scale to the size of the ever-growing OSS code
base. The lack of scalability prevents software developers from
readily managing code clones and associated vulnerabilities.
Moreover, most existing clone detection techniques focus overly
on merely detecting clones and this impairs their ability to
accurately ﬁnd “vulnerable” clones.
In this paper, we propose VUDDY, an approach for the scalable
detection of vulnerable code clones, which is capable of detecting
security vulnerabilities in large software programs efﬁciently
and accurately. Its extreme scalability is achieved by leveraging
function-level granularity and a length-ﬁltering technique that
reduces the number of signature comparisons. This efﬁcient
design enables VUDDY to preprocess a billion lines of code in
14 hour and 17 minutes, after which it requires a few seconds to
identify code clones. In addition, we designed a security-aware
abstraction technique that renders VUDDY resilient to common
modiﬁcations in cloned code, while preserving the vulnerable
conditions even after the abstraction is applied. This extends the
scope of VUDDY to identifying variants of known vulnerabilities,
with high accuracy. In this study, we describe its principles
and evaluate its efﬁcacy and effectiveness by comparing it
with existing mechanisms and presenting the vulnerabilities it
detected. VUDDY outperformed four state-of-the-art code clone
detection techniques in terms of both scalability and accuracy,
and proved its effectiveness by detecting zero-day vulnerabilities
in widely used software systems, such as Apache HTTPD and
Ubuntu OS Distribution.
I. I NTRODUCTION
During the last few years, the number of open source
software (OSS) programs has increased at a rapid pace. Re-
search published in literature showed that open source software
projects have linear to quadratic growth patterns [1], [2], [3].
In practice, the number of registered open source projects in
SourceForge [4] increased from 136 K to 430 K between
October 2009 and March 2014. GitHub [5] announced that
its 10 millionth repository had been created in December
2013, with most of the repositories being software projects.
∗Heejo Lee is the corresponding author.
Meanwhile, they currently have over 85 million projects, in
March 2017.
The considerable increase in the number of OSS programs
has naturally led to an increase in software vulnerabilities
caused by code cloning, thereby posing dire threats to the
security of software systems. Code cloning, the act of copying
and pasting portions of other software, can be useful if it is
properly exploited [6], [7]. However, in practice, code cloning
is often regarded as a bad programming practice because
it can raise maintenance costs [8], reduce quality [9], [10],
produce potential legal conﬂicts, and even propagate software
vulnerabilities [11], [12], [13]. In particular, as OSS programs
are widely used as codebase in software development, (e.g.,
libraries), code cloning is becoming one of the major causes
of software vulnerabilities. For example, the OpenSSL Heart-
bleed vulnerability (CVE-2014-0160) has affected several
types of systems (including websites, web servers, operating
system distributions, and software applications), because the
affected system either used the whole OpenSSL library or
cloned some part of the library for use in their systems.
Moreover, the lifecycle of vulnerabilities exacerbates such
problems. Even if a vendor were to release a patch imme-
diately after the discovery of vulnerability in the original
program, it would take time for the patch to be fully deployed
through every program that cloned the vulnerable code of
the original program [14]. For example, in April 2016, the
“Dogspectus” ransomware was disclosed. This ransomware
exploits a bug in the Linux kernel named “futex local privilege
escalation vulnerability” (CVE-2014-3153) to deliver drive-
by-download malware to the mobile devices that run an
unpatched Android operating system (versions 4.0.3 to 4.4.4).
Another example, the Dirty COW vulnerability (CVE-2016-
5195), which exploits a race condition for privilege escalation,
was found in the memory subsystem of the Linux kernel in
October 2016. What makes this vulnerability outrageous is that
this bug was already ﬁxed in 2005, but the ﬁx was undone
due to another problem raised by the ﬁx. As shown in the
examples, old, vulnerable code fragments that are supposed to
be eliminated, are ceaselessly re-emerging in various locations
for a variety of reasons.
Many researchers have proposed code clone detection tech-
niques to address clone-related problems. However, to our
surprise, few techniques are suitable for accurately ﬁnding
vulnerability in a scalable manner. For example, lexical tech-
2017 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy
© 2017, Seulbae Kim. Under license to IEEE.
DOI 10.1109/SP.2017.62
595
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:36:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 