niques such as CCFinder [15] have the disadvantage of high
complexity as it uses a sufﬁx tree algorithm to measure the
similarity between token sequences of programs. In addition,
its parameter replacement strategy is so aggressive that it
introduces a signiﬁcant number of false positives. Similarly,
approaches that transform code into abstract data structures
(e.g., abstract syntax trees) have to apply expensive tree-
matching operations or graph mining techniques for similarity
estimation [16], [17]. Although such an approach would be
capable of discovering code fragments with similar syntactic
patterns, this does not guarantee accurate vulnerability de-
tection because two code fragments with identical abstract
syntax trees do not necessarily contain the same vulnerability.
Notable exceptions are ReDeBug [18] and SourcererCC [19].
ReDeBug aims to achieve both accuracy and scalability by
applying hash functions to lines of code and later detecting
clones by comparing hash values. However, as we show in
this paper, ReDeBug is still not satisfactory both in terms of
accuracy and scalability when it comes to ﬁnding vulnerable
code clones in massive code bases. For example, when testing
an Android smartphone (15 MLoC), ReDeBug requires half
an hour, and has 17.6 % false positives. SourcererCC uses a
bag-of-tokens strategy to manage minor to speciﬁc changes in
clones, which impairs the accuracy from a security perspec-
tive. For example, SourcererCC detects clones in which the
sequence of code is changed, or statements are inserted. As
a result, it misleadingly detects a patched code fragment as a
clone of an unpatched code fragment.
In this paper, we present VUDDY (VUlnerable coDe clone
DiscoverY), a scalable approach for code clone detection. This
approach is speciﬁcally designed to accurately ﬁnd vulnerabil-
ities in a massive code base. To achieve the goal of highly
scalable yet accurate code clone detection from a security
perspective, we use the functions in a program as a unit for
code clone detection. Since a function delivers both syntactic
and symbolic information of the code, we are able to guarantee
high accuracy in detecting clones with respect to security
issues. Moreover, by applying carefully designed abstraction
and normalization schemes to functions, clones with common
modiﬁcations (e.g., variable names) can be detected, which in
turn enables VUDDY to identify unknown vulnerabilities, as
well. In addition, a clever classiﬁcation of functions based on
the length of a function body considerably reduces the search
space, and thus enables VUDDY to work scalably even on a
massive code base. With this design, VUDDY accomplishes an
unprecedented balance between high scalability and accuracy.
In addition, we present a detailed explanation of the princi-
ples and implementation of VUDDY , as well as the application
of the proposed approach for the detection of vulnerabilities.
We further propose a method to collect CVE vulnerabilities in
an automated way. From 9,770 vulnerability patches obtained
from eight well-known Git repositories (e.g., Google Android),
we retrieved 5,664 vulnerable functions that address 1,764
CVEs. Our evaluation involves empirically measuring the per-
formance of VUDDY and then evaluating the practical merits
of VUDDY by demonstrating the vulnerabilities detected from
a pool consisting of real-world open source software. This pool
includes 25,253 active C/C++ projects collected from GitHub,
Linux kernels, and the Android OS of a smartphone that
was released in March 2016. The results show that VUDDY
preprocesses the 172 M functions (in 13.2 M ﬁles, 8.7 BLoC)
of the 25,253 projects in 4 days and 7 hours, then identiﬁes
133,812 vulnerable functions in approximately 1 second for
each project. VUDDY is twice faster than ReDeBug, while
having no false positive with Android ﬁrmware. Meanwhile,
ReDeBug had 17.6 % false positives.
The contributions of this study include:
• Scalable clone detection: We propose “VUDDY ,” an
approach to scalable yet accurate code clone detection,
which adopts a robust parsing and a novel ﬁngerprinting
mechanism for functions. VUDDY processes a billion
lines of code in 14 hours and 17 minutes, which is an
unprecedented speed.
• Vulnerability-preserving abstraction:We present an ef-
fective abstraction scheme optimized for detecting un-
known vulnerable code clones. This allows VUDDY to
detect unknown vulnerable code clones, as well as known
vulnerabilities in a target program. Owing to this design,
VUDDY detects 24 % more vulnerable clones which are
unknown variants of known vulnerabilities.
• Automated vulnerability acquisition:We introduce a fully
automated method for acquiring known vulnerable func-
tions from Git repositories, by taking advantage of secu-
rity patch information.
• Open service:We have been servicing VUDDY as a form
of open web service at no charge, since April 2016. In
practice, VUDDY is being used by many in the open
source community and by IoT device manufacturers, for
the purpose of examining their software. In the past 11
months, 14 billion lines of code have been queried to our
open service, and 144,496 vulnerable functions have been
detected. Please see https://iotcube.net/
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Sec-
tion II clariﬁes the taxonomy and summarizes existing ap-
proaches concerning code clone detection. Section III presents
the problem and goal. Section IV describes the principles
of our proposed approach, VUDDY . In Section V, we ex-
plain how VUDDY is applied to vulnerability discovery. In
Section VI, we discuss issues regarding the implementation
of VUDDY . Then in Section VII, we describe various ex-
periments conducted for evaluating the scalability, time, and
accuracy of VUDDY against the most competitive techniques
on real-world programs. Section VIII compares VUDDY with
ReDeBug, the most competitive technique, in detail. A quali-
tative evaluation is given through case studies in Section IX.
Section X presents a discussion, and Section XI offers the
conclusion and future work.
II. TAXONOMY AND RELA TEDWORK
A. Taxonomy
To avoid confusion concerning the various taxonomies
adopted in other research, we use the following well accepted
([20], [21], [22], [23]) deﬁnitions of the types of code clones.
• Type-1: Exact clones.These code fragments are dupli-
cated without any change, i.e., are unmodiﬁed.
596
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:36:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 