Yamaguchi, et al. proposed a method named vulnerability
extrapolation [26], and its generalized extension that exploits
patterns extracted from the abstract syntax trees (ASTs) of
functions to detect semantic clones [27]. When extracted
ASTs are embedded in a vector space, their semantics can
be identiﬁed by the latent semantic analysis technique. In
particular, they perform a singular value decomposition on
the embedded vectors, and obtain the structural patterns of
functions. Although their method is capable of detecting Type-
4 clones, they rely heavily on expensive operations, and the
accuracy of detection is not precisely given in their analysis.
We must note that techniques that adopt a considerably high
level of abstraction (e.g., a function into a bag-of-tokens, or
into syntax trees) might be effective for detecting clones, but
they are not suitable for accurately detecting vulnerable code
clones, because security issues are very context sensitive.
4) File-level granularity: DECKARD [17] builds ASTs for
each ﬁle, then extracts characteristic vectors from the ASTs.
After clustering vectors based on their Euclidean distance,
vectors that lie in proximity to one another within the Eu-
clidean space are identiﬁed as code clones. Such tree-based
approaches require extensive execution time, as the subgraph
isomorphism problem is a well-known and time-consuming
NP-Complete problem [28]. Furthermore, DECKARD does
not guarantee sufﬁcient scalability to handle the Debian Linux
OS Distribution, according to Jang, et al. [18]. In addition, it
was pointed out [29] that DECKARD has a 90 % false positive
rate, which again suggests that code fragments with similar
abstract trees are not necessarily clones.
FCFinder [30] removes comments, redundant whitespace,
line breaks, and carriage returns, and then computes the MD5
hash value of each preprocessed ﬁle. It creates a hash table
in which the hash values and corresponding ﬁles constitute
keys and values, respectively. The overlapping hash values are
regarded as ﬁle clones. In contrast to DECKARD, FCFinder
demonstrates extensive scalability. It detected 915 K ﬁle clones
from FreeBSD ports collection, which contains over 7 K soft-
ware projects, and required 17.16 hours to complete its work.
This extended scalability results from their design choice to
adopt ﬁle-level granularity. However, for the same reason, their
approach is not resilient to minor or major changes within ﬁles.
5) Hybrid granularity: Some techniques leverage a com-
bination of various approaches. VulPecker [31] is a system
for automatically checking vulnerability containment. It char-
acterizes a vulnerability with a predeﬁned set of features, then
selects one of the existing code-similarity algorithms (e.g.,
[12], [18], [24]) which is optimal for the type of vulnerable
code fragment. As it takes advantage of a variety of algorithms,
it could detect 40 vulnerabilities which are not registered in the
National Vulnerability Database (NVD). However, it required
508.11 seconds to check the existence of CVE-2014-8547 in
project Libav 10.1 (0.5 MLoC), which makes it improper to
be used against massive open source projects.
III. P ROBLEM AND GOAL STA TEMENT
A. Problem formulation
1) Clone detector: First, we deﬁne a clone detector. For-
mally, letF be the set of all functions in a program (e.g., a
C program). LetV ⊆ F, and T ⊆ F be a set of vulnerable
functions, and a set of target functions, respectively. Then, a
clone detectorC is a function of the type:
C : F →{0,1} (1)
which takes a program and returns 1 (i.e., vulnerable) or 0.
Deﬁnition 1(Completeness). A clone detectorC is complete
with respect toV and T iﬀ
∀f ∈T : f ∈V ⇒C(f)=1 . (2)
2) Abstract clone detector: Now, we denote the set of
abstract functions byˆF, which is generated fromF by applying
an abstraction functionα:
α: F → ˆF (3)
such thatα is deterministic for∀f,f ′ ∈F:
f =f′ ⇒α(f)= α(f′). (4)
With V ⊆ F being a set of vulnerable functions, we can
deﬁne the abstract clone detectorˆC : F →{0,1} in terms of
the abstraction functionα:
ˆCV (f)≡∃f′ ∈V : α(f′)= α(f) (5)
Obviously, the abstract clone detectorˆC is complete:
∀f ∈F : f ∈V ⇒ ˆC(f)=1 . (6)
B. Goals
The goals of this research are as follows:
1) Designing a clone detectorC that satisﬁes completeness.
2) Designing an abstraction functionα and associated ab-
stract clone detector ˆC, which is effective in detecting
Type-1 and Type-2 code clones of known vulnerabilities.
With a given vulnerable functionf, ˆC should detect its
abstract clonesf′, such that ˆC(f)= ˆC(f′)=1 . This implies
that ˆC completely detects exact clones of vulnerability, as
well as clones in which variable names, identiﬁers, data types,
comments, and whitespace are modiﬁed.
Type-3 and Type-4 code clones have characteristics which
make us exclude them from the scope of our abstract clone
detector ˆC. Most importantly, Type-3 and Type-4 code clones
can be subjective to the loss of syntactic information which
are crucial for a vulnerability to be triggered, because security
vulnerabilities are often very sensitive to the constants and the
order of statements. For example, vulnerability that leverages
race condition in thekeyctl_read_keyfunction in securi-
ty/keys/keyctl.c of the Linux kernel before 4.3.4 (CVE-2015-
7550) was ﬁxed by merely changing the order of statements
within the function1. This incident implies that if the order
information is lost after abstraction, the vulnerable condition
is lost as well. Moreover, constants, referring to ﬁxed values
that do not change during the execution of a program, are key
elements in many types of vulnerabilities. Intuitively, even a
1See commit b4a1b4f5047e4f54e194681125c74c0aa64d637d in the Linux
kernel source tree.
598
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:36:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 