35(352&(66,1*
6)XQFWLRQ
UHWULHYDO
&/21('(7(&7,21
3URJUDP
6$EVWUDFWLRQ
DQGQRUPDOL]DWLRQ
6)LQJHUSULQW
JHQHUDWLRQ
)XQFWLRQV
3UHSURFHVVHG
IXQFWLRQV
)LQJHUSULQW
GLFWLRQDU\
6+DVK
ORRNXS
6.H\
ORRNXS
IRXQG
5HSRUWFORQH
IRXQG
)LQJHUSULQW
GLFWLRQDU\
RIYXOQHUDELOLWLHV
)LQJHUSULQW
GLFWLRQDU\
RIWDUJHW
SURJUDPV
Fig. 1: Two stages of VUDDY: preprocessing and clone
detection.
slight modi’¼ücation of the value of constants, (e.g., assigning 0
instead of 1 for a ’¼éag variable which is later used for initiating
an input sanitation sequence) may suppress a vulnerability, or
rather introduce a new vulnerability. For example, the denial-
of-service (DoS) ’¼éaw (CVE-2012-0876) in the Expat XML
parser (xmlparse.c) [32] is patched by changing the constant
value 0 in the problematic function, hash(), into a salt
variable. In that sense, if the abstraction function╬▒ does not
preserve constants, it will not be able to preserve vulnerability
and cause false positive.
IV . THE PROPOSED METHOD : VUDDY
In this section, we describe the main ideas and principles
behind VUDDY (VUlnerable coDe clone DiscoverY), which
is a scalable approach to code clone detection that can be
seamlessly applied to the massive OSS pool.
Based on the aforementioned goals, we propose two-stage
modeling of VUDDY: preprocessing and clone detection. The
preprocessing stage includes three substeps:
S1. Function retrieval
S2. Abstraction and normalization
S3. Fingerprint generation
Then in the clone detection stage, VUDDY conducts:
S4. Key lookup
S5. Hash lookup
Fig. 1 illustrates the overall stages and substeps of VUDDY .
Once preprocessing is complete, the resulting ’¼üngerprint
dictionary can be permanently reused, unless some portion
of the program is changed. In addition, if a user speci’¼ües
the changed portion, only the difference can be applied to
the ’¼üngerprint in a very short time, rather than having to
completely regenerate the ’¼üngerprint. This ef’¼ücient design
enables VUDDY to perform real-time clone detection.
A. Preprocessing
S1. Function retrieval: VUDDY begins by retrieving
functions from a given program by using a robust parser.
VUDDY then performs a syntax analysis to identify formal
parameters, data types in use, local variables, and function
calls. This supplementary information is used in the next stage:
abstraction and normalization.
S2. Abstraction and normalization: In this stage, an
abstraction and normalization feature is offered. Blindly gen-
erating a ’¼üngerprint with an original function will lead to
the omission of renamed (Type-2) clones, and cause false
negatives. Thus, we establish abstraction rules to transform
the function body strings before generating its ’¼üngerprint.
We fashioned four levels of abstraction which makes our
approach resilient to common code modi’¼ücations, while pre-
serving vulnerability. Fig. 2 shows the transformation of a
sample function at varying abstraction levels. Here, higher
levels of abstraction include subordinate levels.
ŌĆó Level 0: No abstraction.Do not abstract the code, for
detecting exact (Type-1) clones.
ŌĆó Level 1: Formal parameter abstraction.Gather formal
parameters from the arguments of the function header,
and replace every occurrence of the parameter variables
inside the body with a symbolFPARAM. Then, the code
clones that modify the parameter names are captured.
ŌĆó Level 2: Local variable abstraction.Replace all local
variables that appear in the body of a function with
a symbol LVAR. From this level onwards, VUDDY is
tolerant to modi’¼ücations of the names of variables in
copy-pasted functions, which is a common practice.
ŌĆó Level 3: Data type abstraction.Replace the data types
with a symbolDTYPE. The data types include not only
standard C data types, and quali’¼üers, but also user-
de’¼üned types. However, modi’¼üers (e.g., unsigned) are not
replaced because for certain types of vulnerabilities, the
signedness of a variable matters. After level 3 abstrac-
tion, code clones of which the variable types have been
changed (e.g., ŌĆ£intŌĆØ to ŌĆ£static intŌĆØ) can be detected.
ŌĆó Level 4: Function call abstraction.Replace the name
of every called function with a symbol FUNCCALL.
Researchers have pointed out that function calls and
shared APIs are typical causes of recurring vulnerabilities
[12], [27], [33]. This procedure is necessary for detecting
cloned functions with similar API usage.
With the abstraction scheme, VUDDY completely detects
Type-2 vulnerable code clones. Cases in which abstraction is
highly effective and critical for detecting vulnerable clones are
introduced in section IX.
The abstracted function body is then normalized by remov-
ing the comments, whitespaces, tabs, and line feed characters,
and by converting all characters into lowercase. This guar-
antees that the performance, especially the detection accu-
racy, of VUDDY is not affected by syntactically meaningless
modi’¼ücations. For example, if a function is inlined after
cloning, or if comments in a function are greatly changed, code
normalization still enables VUDDY to detect the function.
S3. Fingerprint generation: VUDDY generates ’¼ünger-
prints for the retrieved function bodies that are abstracted and
normalized. A ’¼üngerprint of a function is represented as a
599
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:36:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 