TABLE III: Accuracy of VUDDY , SourcererCC, DECKARD,
and CCFinderX when detecting clones between the vulnera-
bility database and Apache HTTPD 2.4.23.
Technique Time Rep † TP FP FN Precision
VUDDY 22 s 9 9 0 2 1.000
SourcererCC (100)∗ 122 s 1 1 0 8 1.000
SourcererCC (70)∗ 125 s 56 2 54 7 0.036
DECKARD (100)∗ 58 s 57 3 54 8 0.053
DECKARD (85)∗ 234 s 462 4 458 8 0.009
CCFinderX 1201 s 74 11 63 1 0.147
∗ The values between parentheses denote minimum similarity threshold
conﬁguration in percent
† Denotes the number of clones each technique reported
of its ﬁltering heuristics. We lowered the minimum similarity
threshold to 70 %, expecting that SourcererCC might detect
more true positive cases. However, it ended up detecting only
two legitimate vulnerable clones, whereas introducing 54 false
positives. DECKARD with minimum similarity set to 100 %
reported 57 clones, and 54 cases were conﬁrmed to be false
positives. This shows that two perfectly matching abstract
syntax trees are not necessarily generated from the same
code fragments. Furthermore, when the minimum similarity
threshold was set to 85 %, DECKARD detected only 4 true
positive clones, with 458 false positives. This result accords
with the observation of Jiang, et al. [29] which claims that
DECKARD has 90 % false positive. CCFinderX was the only
technique that reported more true positive cases than those of
VUDDY . However, 63 out of 74 reported clones were false
positives, and CCFinderX required the most time to complete.
We analyzed the false positive cases of each tool, and
discovered a fatal ﬂaw of the compared techniques. In most
of the false positive cases, SourcererCC, DECKARD, and
CCFinderX falsely identiﬁed patched functions in the target as
clones of unpatched functions in the vulnerability database. We
present one case in which patched benign function is identiﬁed
as a clone of old, vulnerable version of the function, by all
techniques but VUDDY . In Listing 3, we can observe that the
statements removed and added by the patch are quite similar.
Eventually, the unpatched function and patched function have
so similar structure and tokens that SourcererCC, DECKARD,
and CCFinderX misleadingly report them as a clone pair.
We also analyzed the false negative cases. VUDDY did not
detect two vulnerable functions that both SourcererCC (70 %
similarity threshold) and DECKARD detected. The sole reason
is that some lines of code, other than the vulnerable spot ad-
dressed by security patches, were modiﬁed in the function. We
currently have vulnerable functions of the repository snapshots
right before the security patches are applied. However, this is a
trivial issue that can be easily resolved, because we can retrieve
every different versions of a vulnerable function and add them
in our database. For example, a command “git log -p
filename” retrieves the entire change history of the queried
ﬁle. Older snapshots of vulnerable functions are naturally
obtained from the change history, and we can insert these
into our vulnerability database. From a different standpoint,
it is very surprising that SourcererCC and DECKARD have
more false negatives than VUDDY has. For these cases they
failed to identify two identical functions as clones, implying
that these techniques are not complete (see Equation 2).
Listing 3: Snippet of the patch for CVE-2015-3183 which
is already applied in request.c of Apache HTTPD 2.4.23.
1 - if (access_status == OK) {
2 - ap_log_rerror(APLOG_MARK, APLOG_TRACE3, 0, r,
3 - "request authorized without authentication by "
4 - "access_checker_ex hook: %s", r->uri);
5 -}
6 - else if (access_status != DECLINED) {
7 - return decl_die(access_status, "check access", r);
8 ...
9 + else if (access_status == OK) {
10 + ap_log_rerror(APLOG_MARK, APLOG_TRACE3, 0, r,
11 + "request authorized without authentication by "
12 + "access_checker_ex hook: %s", r->uri);
13 +}
14 + else {
15 + return decl_die(access_status, "check access", r);
In summary, although Apache HTTPD is a moderately-sized
project consisting of 350 KLoC, a lot of false positive cases
are reported by techniques other than VUDDY . It is only
logical that the bigger a target program is, the more false
alarms are generated. Therefore, we conﬁdently conclude that
SourcererCC, DECKARD, and CCFinderX are not suitable for
detecting vulnerable clones from large code bases, as they will
report so many false positive cases which cannot be handled by
restricted manpower. Moreover, SourcererCC and DECKARD
had more false negatives than VUDDY had.
D. Exact-matching vs Abstract matching
Our abstraction scheme enables VUDDY to detect variants
of known vulnerabilities. We tested VUDDY with an Android
ﬁrmware (14.9 MLoC). VUDDY reported 166 vulnerable
clones without abstraction and 206 clones with abstraction.
This means that VUDDY detects 24 % more clones with
abstraction, which are unknown vulnerabilities. We manually
inspected the clones, and identiﬁed no false positive.
VIII. I N-DEPTH COMPARISON WITH REDEBUG
In subsection VII-C, we compared VUDDY with other
clone detection techniques of which the designs do not con-
sider vulnerability preservation in clones. Here, we compare
VUDDY with ReDeBug, a line-based vulnerability detection
technique which takes advantage of security patches to ﬁnd
vulnerability. The sole purpose of ReDeBug is to scalably ﬁnd
vulnerable code clones, which we believe to be very similar
to our purpose. As ReDeBug takes a different design choice,
(i.e., line-level granularity) for clone detection, we compare
VUDDY and ReDeBug in detail to demonstrate the efﬁciency
and effectiveness of VUDDY . Three major advantages of
VUDDY over ReDeBug are as follows:
• VUDDY is twice faster than ReDeBug.
• VUDDY has far less false positive than ReDebug.
• VUDDY is capable of detecting Type-2 clones, but
ReDeBug is not.
604
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:36:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 