ReDeBug: Finding Unpatched Code Clones in Entire OS Distributions
Jiyong Jang, Abeer Agrawal, and David Brumley
Carnegie Mellon University
Pittsburgh, PA, USA
{jiyongj, abeer, dbrumley}@cmu.edu
Abstract—Programmers should never ﬁx the same bug twice.
Unfortunately this often happens when patches to buggy code
are not propagated to all code clones. Unpatched code clones
represent latent bugs, and for security-critical problems, latent
vulnerabilities, thus are important to detect quickly.
In this paper we present ReDeBug, a system for quickly
ﬁnding unpatched code clones in OS-distribution scale code
bases. While there has been previous work on code clone
detection, ReDeBug represents a unique design point that uses
a quick, syntax-based approach that scales to OS distribution-
sized code bases that include code written in many different
languages. Compared to previous approaches, ReDeBug may
ﬁnd fewer code clones, but gains scale, speed, reduces the
false detection rate, and is language agnostic. We evaluated
ReDeBug by checking all code from all packages in the Debian
Lenny/Squeeze, Ubuntu Maverick/Oneiric, all SourceForge C
and C++ projects, and the Linux kernel for unpatched code
clones. ReDeBug processed over 2.1 billion lines of code at
700,000 LoC/min to build a source code database, then found
15,546 unpatched copies of known vulnerable code in currently
deployed code by checking 376 Debian/Ubuntu security-related
patches in 8 minutes on a commodity desktop machine. We
show the real world impact of ReDeBug by conﬁrming 145
real bugs in the latest version of Debian Squeeze packages.
Keywords-debug, unpatched code clone, scalability
I. INTRODUCTION
Patches to buggy code are often not propagated to code
clones in real OS distributions. For example, the following
patch was issued for Expat, a widely used XML parser to
ﬁx a bounds checking bug in August 2009.
const char *end,
POSITION *pos)
{
-
while (ptr != end) {
+
while (ptr < end) {
switch (BYTE_TYPE(enc, ptr)) {
#define LEAD_CASE(n) \
case BT_LEAD ## n: \
Listing 1: CVE-2009-3720
This bug, when exploited, causes a denial of service
to the victim [14]. While the above patch ﬁxed Expat in
2009, an additional 386 locations across various Debian,
Ubuntu, and SourceForge packages currently have clones
of the exact same buggy code, all of which are also likely
to be vulnerable. We call such bugs unpatched code clones.
In this paper we present ReDeBug, a lightweight syntax-
based code clone detection system that identiﬁes unpatched
code clones at scale. We have used ReDeBug to analyze
entire OS distributions to understand the current situation of
unpatched code clones: 1) how much (potentially) vulnerable
code can an attacker identify when a patch is released, 2)
how responsive is the new version of an OS to known secu-
rity vulnerabilities, and 3) how many persisting unpatched
code clones are from the previous version of an OS to the
latest version of an OS.
Existing research has focused on methods for improving
the number of code clones detected, e.g., [21, 23–25]. While
advancements in ﬁnding more code clones is important,
current algorithms make several trade-offs:
• Scalability: To give a sense of the scale necessary to
ﬁnd all unpatched code clones, consider that Debian
Lenny currently contains over 210 million lines of non-
empty, non-comment lines of C code alone. Current
approaches focus on ﬁnding as many code clones as
possible, not scale. For example, Deckard [23] was
applied to the Linux kernel and JDK, but could not
scale to the entire Debian Lenny code base, and started
consuming more than 20GB of memory in less than 2
minutes. In big development houses one can use clus-
ters of computers to make the approaches scale [21].
However, solutions that can ﬁnd a competitive number
of code clones without requiring clusters are relevant
because they are cheaper to run (thus can be run more
often) and are applicable to the wider number of de-
velopers who don’t readily have distributed computing
resources.
• Lack of support for many different languages: Since
OS distributions include programs written in a variety
of languages such as C/C++, Java, Shell, Python, Perl,
Ruby, and PHP, we want techniques that are language
agnostic. Current research such as Deckard [23], CP-
Miner [25], CCFinder [24], and Deja Vu [21] ﬁrst parse
the program and use a variety of matching heuristics
based upon high-level code representations such as
CFGs and parse trees. However, implementing robust
parsers for many different languages is a very difﬁcult
problem [7].
2012 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy
© 2012, Jiyong Jang. Under license to IEEE.
DOI 10.1109/SP.2012.13
48
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:35:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
