II. REDEBUG
A. The Core System
Finding all unpatched code clones is tricky and involves
numerous considerations. For example, how many lines of
code need to be similar for a case to be reported? Is one
copied line enough, or are we only interested in multiple
line matches? Should whitespace matter? Should the order
of statements matter, and if so, should we only consider
some syntactic classes? Do we consider the syntactic text,
tokens, or the parse of ﬁles? For example, in C the order
of declarations likely does not matter, but the order of
computation may. What if two segments are equivalent up
to variable naming? What about semantic equivalence, e.g.,
one code sequence multiples by 2 while the other performs
a logical left shift. Are these similar or different?
These questions all involve trade-offs between accuracy,
efﬁciency, and how easy it is to implement a robust algo-
rithm. For example, consider code that is the same up to
variable names and variable declaration order. A straight
string match of the ﬁles may ﬁnd virtually no commonality.
We could certainly address these problems by normalizing
declaration order, and parse code to determine variable name
equivalence (so-called α-equivalence) [11]. However, run-
ning such algorithms require we implement parsing engines
(which can be fragile) and run additional algorithms that
cost time, thus reducing overall throughput. If we are not
careful we may end up subtly analyzing a model of the
original program that is not right, e.g., declaration order
matters when looking for buggy code clones of incorrect
shadow variable declarations.
ReDeBug’s choices are motivated by the design space
goals of: (1) focusing on unpatched code clones, (2) scaling
to large and diverse code bases such as OS distributions, (3)
minimizing false detection, (4) being modular when possible
and offer a user choice of parameters, and (5) be language-
agnostic as much as possible so that we work with the wealth
of languages found within an OS distribution code base. The
core of the ReDeBug system accomplishes these goals using
the following steps:
1) ReDeBug normalizes each ﬁle. By default ReDeBug
removes typical language comments, removes all non-
ASCII characters, removes redundant whitespace ex-
cept new lines, and converts all characters to lower
case. We also ignore curly braces if the ﬁle is C, C++,
Java, or Perl (as identiﬁed by extension or the UNIX
file command).
Normalization is modularized so that the exact nor-
malization steps can easily be changed.
2) The normalized ﬁle is tokenized based upon new lines
and regex substrings.
3) ReDeBug slides a window of length n over the token
stream. Each n tokens are considered a unit of code
to compare.
4) Given two sets fa and fb of n-tokens, we compute the
amount of code in common. When ﬁnding unpatched
code clones, if fa is the original buggy code snippet
we calculate
CONTAINTMENT(fa, fb) = |fa ∩fb|
|fa|
(1)
When we want to measure the total amount of sim-
ilarity between ﬁles, we calculate the percentage of
tokens in common (i.e., the Jaccard index):
SIMILARITY(fa, fb) = |fa ∩fb|
|fa ∪fb|
(2)
With either calculation it is common to only con-
sider cases where the similarity or containment is
greater than or equal to some pre-determined threshold
θ. In our implementation, we also perform obvious
optimizations such as when θ = 1 only verifying
fa ⊆fb instead of calculating an actual ratio for
CONTAINMENT.
5) ReDeBug performs an exact match test on the iden-
tiﬁed unpatched code clones to remove Bloom ﬁlter
errors. ReDeBug also uses the compiler to identify
when a code clone is dead code when possible.
For example, suppose we have two ﬁles A = t1t2t3t4
and B = t1t3t4t2 where each ti is a token (note to-
kens are written in the order that they appear in the
ﬁle). The tokenization is then A = {t1, t2, t3, t4} and
B = {t1, t3, t4, t2}. When n = 2, there are 3 2-token
strings in each set: fA = {(t1, t2), (t2, t3), (t3, t4)} and
fB = {(t1, t3), (t3, t4), (t4, t2)}. The similarity is 1/5 since
1 out of 5 2-token sets are shared, (t3, t4), even though the
shared token sequence appears at different places in the ﬁle.
As a result, ReDeBug works with reordering, insertions, and
deletions of up to n-tokens.
ReDeBug is parametrized in two ways: the number of
consecutive tokens to consider together, n, and the threshold,
θ. n determines the sensitivity for statement reordering,
e.g., if n = 1 then statement order does not matter at all,
n = 2 looks at statement pairs, and so on. θ acts as a
knob to tell us what is a signiﬁcant amount of copying.
When θ = 1, two ﬁles must have exactly the same n-tokens
(after normalization). When θ = 0, any match is considered
signiﬁcant. Values in between represent thresholds for the
amount of similarity of interest. There is no “right” value
for these parameters. In our experiments we show typical
values that produce meaningful results. For example, n = 4
works well with existing patches.
Design point comparison: Our approach is in stark contrast
with current research trends in code clone detection, such as
Deckard [23], CP-Miner [25], Deja Vu [21], and others [1,
24], that focus on minimizing missed code clones at the
expense of other factors. These approaches also normalize
the code, but then perform additional steps such as parsing
50
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:35:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
