A standard approach for comparing all N ﬁles requires that
we compare ﬁle 1 to ﬁle 2 through N, ﬁle 2 to ﬁle 3 through
N, and so on with a total of N(N−1)
2
comparisons.
In order to make pairwise comparisons cheap, we need
to implement the Jaccard SIMILARITY set-wise similarity
comparisons efﬁciently. Most standard libraries implement
the Jaccard index directly as a set operation on set data con-
tainer classes, e.g., as done in SimMetrics [4]. The problem
is that set data structures are L1/L2 cache inefﬁcient.
ReDeBug uses bitvectors in order to speed up pair-wise
comparisons. The idea is that the bitvector operation well-
approximates a true Jaccard based upon the original sets.
However, the Bloom ﬁlters we described above are designed
for set membership, not calculating the Jaccard. Jang et al.
noticed that as the number of hash functions used in a Bloom
ﬁlter grows, so does the error in the approximation [22]. The
solution is to use a single hash function when creating the
bitvectors for SIMILARITY, not multiple hash functions. A
single hash function approach is called feature hashing. Jang
et al. [22] show that feature hashing well approximates the
true Jaccard in both theory and practice (e.g., within 99.99%
of the true value with proper parameter selection); we adopt
their technique in ReDeBug. A side beneﬁt is that a single
hash is faster than multiple hashes used in typical Bloom
ﬁlter operations.
ReDeBug encodes all elements in a bitvector using fea-
ture hashing. ReDeBug then calculates the distance using
SIMILARITYbv instead of Equation 2,
SIMILARITYbv(va, vb) = S(va ∧vb)
S(va ∨vb)
where vi is the bitvector representation of the feature set for
ﬁle i and S(·) counts the number of set bits.
The complete system for computing similarity for OS-
distributions becomes:
1) Obtain all source code. For Debian and Ubuntu, this
is done with apt. For SourceForge, we crawled all
Subversion, CVS and Git directories.
2) For each ﬁle, normalize and tokenize as described in
§ II-A.
3) For each n-length token sequence i, compute h(i) = d
and set the d’th bit in the respective ﬁle bitvector m.
4) Compute SIMILARITYbv between each pair of bitvec-
tors.
The result is a pairwise similarity measurement between
ﬁles. In a development environment we would only return
those with a similarity greater than θ.
Similarity at different granularities: The source ﬁle level
provides a relatively coarse granularity of measurement
between code bases. ReDeBug can extract functions from
ﬁles, and compute similarity based upon functions using
the same algorithm. ReDeBug can also calculate the total
fraction of unique n-tokens. The total fraction of n-tokens
suggests the number of unique code fragments found. In our
evaluation, we measure both for our data sets (§ III-H).
D. Similarity vs. Bug Finding
The algorithm for ﬁnding bugs is similar to that for
similarity detection, with a few exceptions. First, we pre-
process the source to build a database. Patches are queried
against the database while every pair of ﬁles is compared
when computing similarity. The advantage of this is that the
time to build a database and to query bugs increases only
linearly as we have more ﬁles and patches. The time for
similarity detection quadratically goes up with more ﬁles
due to N 2 comparisons.
The second difference is that we use Bloom ﬁlters for un-
patched code clone detection, while we used feature hashing
for similarity detection. We originally wanted a system that
used a single algorithm. While conceptually more elegant,
such a design wasn’t optimal in either scenario. For example,
if we had based our similarity metric on Bloom ﬁlters with
multiple hash functions, we would have a larger error rate
than with feature hashing due to extra collisions from the
extra hash functions. If we had used feature hashing instead
of Bloom ﬁlters, we would again have lower accuracy when
performing set membership tests. While this may seem like a
subtle difference, previous theoretical and empirical analysis
also back up the difference between feature hashing and
Bloom ﬁlters [22, 29].
Luckily, the internals of implementing both feature hash-
ing and Bloom ﬁlters is almost identical. In one case we use
a single hash function and have a distance metric interface,
and in the other we use multiple hash functions and export
a set membership interface.
III. IMPLEMENTATION & EVALUATION
A. Implementation
ReDeBug is implemented in about 1000 lines of C
code and 250 lines of Python. Normalization is mod-
ularized within the Python code. We use the QuickLZ
library [3] to perform compression/decompression while
setting QLZ_COMPRESSION_LEVEL to 3 for faster decom-
pression speed.
B. Unpatched Code Clone Detection Experimental Setup
System Environment: We performed all experiments to
ﬁnd unpatched code clones (both building and querying the
database) on a desktop machine running Linux 2.6.38 (3.4
GHz Intel Core i7 CPU, 8GB memory, 256 GB SSD drive).
We utilized 8 threads to build a DB and to query bugs.
Dataset: We collected our source code dataset twice: early
in 2011 and late in 2011. We ﬁrst collected our Early 2011
Dataset (Σ1) in January/March 2011: all source packages for
Debian 5.0 Lenny and Ubuntu 10.10 Maverick, as well as
all public SourceForge C/C++ projects using version control
systems such as Subversion, CVS and Git, and the Linux
53
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:35:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
