• High false detection rate: The advanced heuristics
used to ﬁnd more code clones introduce a high false
detection rate, i.e., a large number of false code clones
are reported. For example, Deja Vu boasts the highest
accuracy we are aware of at 26-34%, meaning 66-74%
are false code clones. That’s 2 out of every 3 reports.
A considerable amount of resources would be wasted
to inspect all the reported cases.
ReDeBug tackles a new point in the design space where
we trade more expensive, yet thorough, pattern matching
algorithms for speed, scalability, and a language-agnostic
property:
• Scalability: ReDeBug uses a syntax-based pattern
matching approach that can be implemented using
extremely efﬁcient data structures which allow fast
querying for code clones when given a patch. ReDeBug
processed source code into a database at about 700,000
LoC/min on a commodity desktop. This database of
over 2.1 billion lines of code can then be queried in less
than 8 minutes. Therefore, ReDeBug can also be used
as part of the normal development and patch process
on hardware available to an average developer or user,
e.g., an average desktop.
• Language agnostic: Roughly speaking, ReDeBug per-
forms simple normalization where all whitespace is
removed and all characters are transformed to their
lower-case equivalent. Such simple normalization al-
lows ReDeBug to identify a variety of latent security
vulnerabilities in programs written in many different
languages. Interestingly, in our evaluation, Deckard –
a tree-based code clone detection technique – missed
6x more code clones than ReDeBug, not counting
languages handled by ReDeBug but not supported by
Deckard (§ IV-A).
• Lower false detection rate: ReDeBug focuses on de-
creasing false detection rate by using a close-to-exact
matching instead of fuzzier matching employed by pre-
vious code clone work. This means we may ﬁnd fewer
unpatched code clones, but that we will also have fewer
false positives due to mis-matches. ReDeBug has false
positives when vulnerable code is not detected as dead
code by the underlying compiler, and when a previously
identiﬁed vulnerable code segment is used in a way
that makes it non-exploitable. Deja Vu and similar
approaches have similar sources of false detection, plus
errors in the matching algorithms themselves [21, 23–
25]. As a result, Deja Vu had a false detection rate
of 66-74%, which is on the better end of similar code
clone detection mechanisms [21, 23–25]. ReDeBug has
zero errors due to matching, thus does not suffer from
the major source of false positives found in previous
work.
We have used ReDeBug to check for unpatched code
clones in Debian 6.0 Squeeze (348,754,939 LoC 1), De-
bian 5.0 Lenny (257,796,235 LoC), Ubuntu 11.10 Oneiric
(397,399,865 LoC), Ubuntu 10.10 Maverick (245,237,215
LoC), Linux Kernel (8,968,871 LoC), and all C/C++
projects at SourceForge (922,424,743 LoC). So far, Re-
DeBug has found 15,546 unpatched code clones in the
total 2,180,581,868 LoC by checking 376 Debian/Ubuntu
security-related patches. The patches address a variety of
issues ranging from buffer overﬂows, to information dis-
closure vulnerabilities, to denial of service vulnerabilities.
Our measurements indicate that even though ReDeBug is
simpler, it actually ﬁnds a comparable number of code clones
to existing approaches (§ IV-A).
Previous work has shown that once a patch is released, an
attacker can use the patch to reverse engineer the bug and
automatically create an exploit in only a few minutes [10].
Our experiments indicate one security implication of ReDe-
Bug is an attacker, using a single laptop, could potentially
ﬁnd thousands of vulnerable applications among billions of
lines of code in only a few minutes once a patch is released,
assuming he has already preprocessed the code.
In addition to ﬁnding unpatched code clones, we have
conducted the ﬁrst study of the amount of code cloning in
the entire Debian Lenny source base. By performing pair-
wise comparison among functions, ReDeBug provides the
distribution of function pairs based upon their similarity (see
§ III-H)
Overall, our main contributions are:
• We analyze entire OS distributions to comprehend the
current trends of unpatched code clones. To the best
of our knowledge, ReDeBug is the ﬁrst tool to explore
over 2.1 billion lines of entire OS distributions to under-
stand unpatched code clone problems. We show that un-
patched code clones are a recurring problem in modern
distributions, and ﬁnd 15,546 unpatched code clones
from Debian Lenny/Squeeze, Ubuntu Maverick/Oneiric
distributions, the Linux kernel, and SourceForge. So far,
ReDeBug has conﬁrmed 145 real bugs.
• We describe ReDeBug, which suggests a new design
space for code clone detection in terms of scalability,
speed, and false detection rate. In particular, the design
point makes ReDeBug realistic for use by typical de-
velopers in everyday environments in order to improve
the security of their code by quickly querying known
vulnerabilities.
• We provide the ﬁrst empirical measurement of the
total amount of copied code in OS distributions. This
suggests that in the future, unpatched code clones will
continue to be important and relevant.
1We always count non-empty, non-comment lines.
49
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:35:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
