diff
svn commit
patch
Extract original
code snippet 
including context
Normalize/
Tokenize
DB
(Bloom filter 
per file)
Sources
Debian, Ubuntu, 
Kernel, ...
Normalize/
Tokenize
Hash n-tokens 
into Bloom filters 
Unpatched 
Code Clone List
Remove 
BF errors/ 
dead code
Build DB
Unpatched
code clones
Find Bugs
Similarity
Feature hashing
n-tokens
DB
(Bitvector per 
file/function)
Pairwise 
Similarity
Measurement
Compute
bitwise similarity
Measure Similarity
Unpatched Code Clone Detection
Code Similarity Detection
(parallelized)
set membership 
test
Figure 2: The ReDeBug workﬂow.
that, else we obtain it from the original source
ﬁles.
2) Normalizes and tokenizes the extracted original
buggy code snippets. The normalization process is
the same as described in Step 1. For C, C++, Java,
and Python we remove any partial comments in
the c context lines since those languages support
multi-line comments and c context lines may have
only the head or tail part of multi-line comments.
3) Hashes the n-token window into a set of hashes
fp.
4) Performs a Bloom ﬁlter set membership test
on each hashed n-token window. We report an
unpatched code clone with ﬁle f if CONTAIN-
MENT(fp, f) ≥θ.
• Step 3: Post-process the reported clones. Given re-
ported unpatched code clones, ReDeBug automatically:
1) Performs an exact-matching test to remove Bloom
ﬁlter errors.
2) Excludes dead code which is not included at
build time. For C we add assert statements
to the buggy code region, and compile with -g
option which allows us to check the presence
of assert statements using objdump -S. For
non-compiled languages this step is omitted.
3) ReDeBug reports only non-dead code to the user.
We use Bloom ﬁlters [8] because they are a space efﬁcient
randomized data structure used for set membership tests.
Suppose there is a data set S, i.e., in our setting a set of
n-tokens. A Bloom ﬁlter represents set S as a vector of m
bits initially all set to 0. To add an element x ∈S to the
Bloom ﬁlter we ﬁrst apply k independent hash functions of
range {1..m}. For each hash h(x) = i, we set the i’th bit
of the bit vector to 1. In a Bloom ﬁlter, to test if an element
of y ∈S, we again apply the k hash functions and check
if all the bits are 1. If at least one of the hashed bits is 0,
then we return y /∈S. If all bits are set to 1, then we return
y ∈S.
Bloom ﬁlters have one-sided error for set membership
tests. A false positive occurs when the set membership test
returns x ∈S when x is not really in S. False positives occur
because of collisions in hash functions. The false positive
rate of the Bloom ﬁlter depends on the size of the bit array
(m), the number of hash functions (k), and the number of
elements in S (N). The probability of a false positive can be
made negligible by an appropriate choice of parameters [9].
Bloom ﬁlters have no false negatives. In our setting, the
one-sided error means we may mistakenly say that an n-
token is present in the set when it is not. The probability of
this happening can be made arbitrarily low with appropriate
parameter selection, e.g., it is 0.3% in our implementation.
In our evaluation, we only report an unpatched code
clone if a ﬁle contains all context and all original n-tokens
as described above, i.e., θ = 1. This is a conservative
conﬁguration.
C. Code Similarity Detection
ReDeBug can also be used to measure the amount of code
clones. In this mode ReDeBug uses the SIMILARITY metric
between code pairs. The main issue when performing simi-
larity measurements is the cost of the pairwise comparisons.
52
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:35:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
