// Original buggy code
char buf[8];
strcpy(buf, input);
// Possible patch 1
char buf[8];
- strcpy(buf, input);
+ strncpy(buf, input, 8);
// Possible patch 2
char buf[8];
+ if(strlen(input) < 8)
strcpy(buf, input);
Figure 1: Buggy code example and two possible patches
the code into high-level representations like parse trees and
control ﬂow graphs. They then employ advanced fuzzy
matching algorithms on the abstractions to ﬁnd additional
code clones that we may miss. On the other hand, they
may report more false code clones, which require signiﬁcant
human effort to inspect all the reported cases. Furthermore,
it is known to be very hard to implement good parsers [7].
Overall, the main difference is by employing simpler
techniques that is language agnostic, we can focus on ef-
ﬁcient data structures and algorithms and ultimately scale to
much larger code bases written in many different languages.
Our techniques may miss some clones, but minimize false
clone detection rate. This is important for at least two
reasons. First, by checking all code in a distribution quickly
we can make basic guarantees that at least syntactically
similar unpatched code clones do not exist. Second, we
can conservatively estimate the amount of code cloning in
existing large code bases. The more advanced algorithms in
the above work have not demonstrated they can make either
claim.
B. Unpatched Code Clone Detection
At a high level, there are two approaches to ﬁnd unpatched
code clones in OS distributions: (1) ﬁrst ﬁnd all code clones
among the source and then check if a patch applies to copies,
or (2) check for clones of only the patched code. Previous
work has focused on techniques for ﬁnding all clones such
as in (1). This makes sense when doing bug ﬁnding on
whole code bases is cheaper to do on unique code snippets.
ReDeBug takes approach (2) because we only want to ﬁnd
clones of the original unpatched buggy code.
ReDeBug looks for unpatched code clones where patches
are in UNIX uniﬁed diff format. Uniﬁed diffs are pop-
ular among open source kernel developers, OS distribution
maintainers, and are well-integrated into popular revision
control systems like Subversion [12].
A uniﬁed diff patch consists of a sequence of diff hunks.
Each hunk contains the changed ﬁlename, and a sequence of
additions and deletions. Added source code lines are preﬁxed
by a “+” symbol, and deletions are preﬁxed by a “-” symbol.
Line changes are represented as deleting the original line and
adding back the changed lines.
The original buggy code includes all code deleted by
the patch. However, simply looking for the lines that were
changed (by being deleted) is insufﬁcient: we must also
consider the surrounding context of the patch.
Consider the buggy code and two possible patch scenarios
shown in Figure 1. Patch 1 signiﬁes that strcpy is buggy
by deleting the line of code. The code is replaced with the
safe strncpy version. We can go looking for the deleted
line of code, and ﬂag it as buggy everywhere we see it.
However, patch 2 simply adds a check. Looking for the
missing check is not straightforward since we cannot directly
look for missing lines of code. Our approach is to look for
copies of the surrounding context tokens, c, for each changed
line and report clones of the context.
The overall steps used by ReDeBug to detect buggy code
clones, shown in Figure 2, are:
• Step 1: Pre-process the source. A user obtains all
source ﬁles used in their distribution. For Debian, this is
done using the apt tool. ReDeBug then automatically:
1) Performs normalization and tokenization as de-
scribed in the core system in § II-A.
2) Moves an n-length window over the token stream.
For each window, the resulting n-tokens are
hashed into a Bloom ﬁlter.
3) Stores the Bloom ﬁlter for each source ﬁle in
a raw data format. ReDeBug compresses Bloom
ﬁlters before storing to disk to save space and to
reduce the amount of disk access at query time.
While initially the above steps would be performed over
the entire distribution, day-to-day use would only run
the steps on modiﬁed ﬁles, e.g., as part of a revision
control check-in. In our experiments and implemen-
tation, we also concatenate per-ﬁle Bloom ﬁlters for
a project into a single bitmap before saving to disk.
This is purely an optimization; loading the single large
Bloom ﬁlter is much quicker than loading a bunch of
small Bloom ﬁlters on our machines.
• Step 2: Check for unpatched code copies. A user
obtains a uniﬁed diff software patch. ReDeBug then
automatically:
1) Extracts the original code snippet and the c tokens
of context information from the pre-patch source.
The mechanics for the code snippet are simple:
we extract lines preﬁxed by a “-” symbol in the
patch (lines preﬁxed with a “+” symbol are added
and thus not present in the original buggy code). If
context information is given in the patch, we use
51
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:35:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
