ABSTRACT
Despite the security community’s best eﬀort, the number
of serious vulnerabilities discovered in software is increasing
rapidly. In theory, security audits should find and remove
the vulnerabilities before the code ever gets deployed. How-
ever, due to the enormous amount of code being produced,
as well as a the lack of manpower and expertise, not all code
is suﬃciently audited. Thus, many vulnerabilities slip into
production systems. A best-practice approach is to use a
code metric analysis tool, such as Flawfinder, to flag poten-
tially dangerous code so that it can receive special attention.
However, because these tools have a very high false-positive
rate, the manual eﬀort needed to find vulnerabilities remains
overwhelming.
In this paper, we present a new method of finding poten-
tially dangerous code in code repositories with a significantly
lower false-positive rate than comparable systems. We com-
bine code-metric analysis with metadata gathered from code
repositories to help code review teams prioritize their work.
The paper makes three contributions. First, we conducted
the first large-scale mapping of CVEs to GitHub commits
in order to create a vulnerable commit database. Second,
based on this database, we trained a SVM classifier to flag
suspicious commits. Compared to Flawfinder, our approach
reduces the amount of false alarms by over 99 % at the same
level of recall. Finally, we present a thorough quantitative
and qualitative analysis of our approach and discuss lessons
learned from the results. We will share the database as
a benchmark for future research and will also provide our
analysis tool as a web service.
Categories and Subject Descriptors
D.2.4 [Software Engineering]: Software/Program Verifi-
cation; K.6.5 [ Management of Computing and Infor-
mation Systems]: Security and Protection
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full cita-
tion on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than
ACM must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or re-
publish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission
and/or a fee. Request permissions from Permissions@acm.org.
CCS’15,October 12-16, 2015, Denver, Colorado, USA.
c⃝2015 ACM. ISBN 978-1-4503-3832-5/15/10 ...$15.00.
DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2810103.2813604.
Keywords
Vulnerabilities; Static Analysis; Machine Learning
