1. INTRODUCTION
Despite the best eﬀort of the security community, the
number of serious vulnerabilities discovered in deployed soft-
ware is on the rise. The Common Vulnerabilities and Expo-
sures (CVE) database operated by MITRE tracks the most
serious vulnerabilities. In 2000, around 1,000 CVEs were
registered. By 2010, there were about 4,500. In 2014, al-
most 8,000 CVEs were registered. The trend seems to be
increasing in speed.
While it is considered a best practice to perform code
reviews before code is released, as well as to retroactively
checking old code, there is often not enough manpower to
rigorously review all the code that should be reviewed. Al-
though open-source projects have the advantage that any-
body can, in theory, look at all the source code, and although
bug-bounty programs create incentives to do so, usually only
a small team of core developers reviews the code.
In order to support code reviewers in finding vulnerabili-
ties, tools and methodologies that flag potentially dangerous
code are used to narrow down the search. For C-like lan-
guages, a wide variety of code metrics can raise warning
flags, such as a variable assigned inside an if-statement or
unreachable cases in a switch-statement. The Clang static
analyzer [1] as well as the dynamic analyzer Valgrind [3] and
others, can pinpoint further pitfalls such as invalid mem-
ory access. For the Linux kernel, the Trinity system call-
fuzzer [2] has found and continues to find many bugs. Fi-
nally, static analysis tools like Flawfinder [34] help find pos-
sible security vulnerabilities.
Most of these approaches operate on an entire software
project and deliver a (frequently very large) list of poten-
tially unsafe code. However, software grows incrementally
and it is desirable to have tools to assist in reviewing these
increments as well as tools to check entire projects. Most
open-source projects manage their source code with version
control systems (VCS) such as Git, Mercurial, CVS or Sub-
version. In such systems, code - including vulnerable code
- is inserted into the software in the form of commits to the
repository. Therefore, the natural unit upon which to check
whether new code is dangerous is the commit. However,
most existing tools cannot simply be executed on code snip-
pets contained within a commit. Thus, if a code reviewer
wants to check the security of a commit, the reviewer must
426


===== PAGE 002 =====

execute the analysis software on the entire project and then
check if any of the warnings relate to the commit. This can
be a considerable amount of work, especially since many
tools require source code to be annotated and dynamic tests
would have to be constructed in a way that triggers the
commit.
Static and dynamic code analysis tools focus exclusively
on the code without the context of who wrote the code and
how it was committed. However, code repositories contain
a wealth of metadata which can be highly relevant to the
code quality. For instance, it can be seen whether a com-
mitter is new to the project or if they are one of the core
contributors. It is possible to see the time of day or night
at which code was submitted and to monitor the activity of
development in certain regions of code. Moreover, most ex-
isting code-metric-based tools have very high false-positive
rates, creating a (sometimes impossibly) high workload and
undermining trust in the eﬀectiveness of the tools. For in-
stance, Flawfinder tool created 5,460 false positives warnings
for only 53 true positives on the dataset used in this paper.
It is intuitively clear that code reviewers who want to find
53 vulnerabilities in a set of 5,513 flagged commits have a
tough time ahead of them.
In this paper, we present a classifier that can identify po-
tentially vulnerable commits with a significantly lower false-
positive rate while retain high recall rates. Therefore, unlike
most existing tools for vulnerability finding, we don’t focus
solely on code metrics, but also leverage the rich metadata
contained in code repositories.
To evaluate the eﬀectiveness of our approach, we conduct
a large-scale evaluation of 66 GitHub projects with 170,860
commits, gathering both metadata about the commits as
well as mapping CVEs to commits to create a database of
vulnerability-contributing commits (VCCs) and a benchmark
for future research.
We conducted a statistical analysis of these VCCs and
trained a Support Vector Machine (SVM) to detect them
based on the combination of code metric analysis and Git-
Hub metadata. For our evaluation we trained our classifier
only on data up to December 31, 2010 and ran our tests
against CVEs discovered in 2011-2014.
In this dataset, our approach, called VCCFinder, pro-
duces only 36 false positives compared to Flawfinder’s 5,460
at the same level of recall. This is a reduction of over 99 %
and significantly eases the workload of code reviewers.
1.1 Our Contributions
In summary, we make the following contributions in this
paper:
•We present VCCFinder, a code analysis tool that flags
suspicious commits by using a SVM-based detection
model. Our method outperforms Flawfinder by a great
margin, reducing the false positives by over 99 % at the
same level of recall. Our methodology is suited to work
on code snippets, enabling us to analyse code at the
commit level and making a lightweight analysis of new
code far easier than requiring a full build environment
to be set up for each test.
•We construct the first large-scale database mapping
CVEs to vulnerability-contributing commits (VCCs).
The database contains 66 GitHub projects, 170,860
commits and 640 VCCs. We conduct an extensive eval-
uation of the methodology used to create this database
to ascertain its quality as a benchmark for future re-
search.
•We present an extensive quantitative and qualitative
evaluation of VCCFinder and discuss take-aways, in-
cluding, for instance that, from a security perspective,
gotos are not generally harmful but in combination
with error-handling code they are responsible for a sig-
nificant number of VCCs.
