2. RELATED WORK
The discovery of vulnerabilities in program code is a fun-
damental problem of computer security. Consequently, it
has received much attention in the past. In the following,
we give a sample of the prior work most closely related to
our approach.
Static analysis.
The set of static analysis tools can be thought of as a spec-
trum ranging from faster, lightweight approaches to slower
but more thorough techniques. With VCCFinder being a
lightweight tool, we compare ourselves to FlawFinder [34],
a prominent representative of this class of tools. Other
lightweight approaches include Rats [9], Prefast [8] as well
as Splint [10], the later requiring manual annotations.
Regarding more thorough approaches Bandhakavi et al.
[11] search for vulnerabilities in browser extensions by apply-
ing static information-flow analysis to the JavaScript code.
Dahse and Holz [15] introduced a static analyzer for PHP
that can detect sophisticated attacks against web applica-
tions. Finally, commercial tools like Coventry [5], Fortify [6],
CodeSonar [4], and IBM Security AppScan Source (formerly
Rational) [7] focus on a thorough analysis with configurable
rulesets and consequently long run times.
Symbolic execution.
Cadar et al. [12] present KLEE, a symbolic execution tool,
which requires manual annotation and modification of the
source code. Also the runtime grows exponentially with the
number of paths in the program, which limits the size of
project which can be tested with KLEE. Thus it is not fea-
sible to execute KLEE on the same scale as VCCFinder.
However, it is an interesting area of future work to execute
KLEE as a second step after VCCFinder. Klee would then
only be used on the commits flagged by VCCFinder which
hopefully would significantly reduce the eﬀort needed to run
KLEE. We see these tools as complementary and separate
steps in the tool chain.
Dynamic analysis.
Cho et al. [14] use a combination of symbolic and con-
crete execution to build an abstract model of the analyzed
application and find vulnerabilities in several open-source
projects. Yamaguchi et al. [37] provide an analysis plat-
form oﬀering fuzzy parsing of code that generates a graph
representing code suitable to be mined with graph-database
queries. This approach allows application-specific vulnera-
bility patterns to be expressed; however, in contrast to our
approach, it requires manual specification of these patterns
by the analyst. Holler et al. [20] used fuzzing on code frag-
ments to find vulnerabilities in the Mozilla JavaScript inter-
preter and the PHP interpreter.
427

===== PAGE 003 =====

Software metrics.
Several authors have proposed to employ software met-
rics to home in on regions of code more likely to contain
vulnerabilities. For example, Zimmermann et al. [38] per-
form a large-scale empirical study on Windows Vista, indi-
cating that metrics such as code churn, code complexity [see
22, 19] and organizational measures allow vulnerabilities to
be detected with high precision at low recall rates, while
code dependency measures achieve low precision at high re-
call rates. However, Graylin et al. [18] point out that many
of these metrics may be highly correlated with lines of code.
In particular, they show empirically that the relation be-
tween cyclomatic complexity and lines of code is near-linear,
meaning that no reduction in the amount of code to read is
achieved in this way.
Repository analysis.
There is a range of research work looking at software repo-
sitories in relation to software vulnerabilities. The most rel-
evant with respect to our project can be divided into two
groups: those that look at code metrics and those that look
at metadata.
Neuhaus et al. [26] use the vulnerability database of the
Mozilla project to extract which software components have
had vulnerabilities in the past and which imports and func-
tion calls were involved. They use this to predict which soft-
ware components of the Mozilla Internet suite are most likely
to contain more vulnerabilities. Unlike our approach, they
do not use any metadata in their analysis and the results
flag entire software components rather than single commits.
The results are thus more generic in the sense that they can
say only that one set of software components is more worth
checking than others.
On the other side, work conducted by Meneely et al. and
Shin et al. analyzes diﬀerent code repository metadata in
relation to CVEs [25, 23, 24]. Specifically, they check how
features such as code churn, lines of code, or the number of
reviewers from a project’s repository and review system data
correlate to reported vulnerabilities. They do this manually
for the Mozilla Firefox Browser, Apache HTTP server and
an excerpt of the RHEL Linux kernel. Unlike the work above
and our work, they do not use this data to predict vulnera-
bilities; moreover, unlike our work, they do not combine the
features but look at each separately.
Sadeghi et al. [28] aim to reduce the number of rules used
by static analysis software. For this they looked at “catego-
rized software repositories” (i.e. the Google Play Store) and
evaluated how knowledge of the app’s category can reduce
the number of static analysis rules needed to still retain full
coverage. For this, they compared Java programs on Source-
Forge (without a framework) to Android apps on F-Droid
(written with an application development framework). From
the app’s category they were able to build a predictor that
helps pick a subset of static analyzer rules to apply; therefore
reducing the time the static analyzer needs. Their method
works especially well with apps using a framework, such as
Android apps. In contrast, while this work reduces the num-
ber of rules used for analysis, we prioritize the code needed
to be analysed. These approaches are complementary.
Wijayasekara et al. [35] used bug-trackers to study bugs
that afterwards have been identified as vulnerabilities. The
work does not deal with finding unknown vulnerabilities.
While this does not directly relate to our work, bug-trackers
are an interesting additional source of information.
Kim et al. [21] mined logs of a project’s SCM repository for
bug-introducing changes using fixed keywords (such as “fix”
or “bug”). They then extracted features from these commits
and trained an SVM. Our approach diﬀers from the authors’
in three ways: first, we use as a base of our research the much
smaller and thus harder set of critical vulnerabilities mined
from the CVE database; second, we use additional features
gathered from the SCM history such as past/future diﬀerent
authors; third we use a historical split to evaluate our system
opposed to a (random) ten-fold cross validation. The later
is important since it guarantees that our system was not
trained on future commits to decide if some past commit
introduced a bug. Unfortunately neither the code base nor
the data is available so a direct comparison is not possible.
We re-ran our experiments using random cross validation
and found that it increased the precision for around 15 %
with a recall between 0.4 and 0.6.
´Sliwerski et al. [32] present preliminary results on a sta-
tistical analysis of the Eclipse and Mozilla projects. They
mined the Eclipse project’s bug database for fix-inducing
changes. Then, they do a statistical analysis on their data,
showing that most bugs were committed on Fridays. Our
work goes beyond these results in several ways. The sta-
tistical analysis is more extensive, is done on a much larger
dataset and is only the first step in our system. Based on
the results we train a SVM and create an adaptable system
to predict vulnerability inducing commits.
Thus, our work goes beyond the above approaches in sev-
eral ways. We combine both code metrics as well as meta-
data in our analysis and use a machine-learning approach
to extract and combine relevant features as well as to cre-
ate a classification engine to predict which commits are more
likely to be vulnerable. In contrast to the work above, we do
this for a large set of projects in an automated way instead
of hand-picking features and analyzing single projects.
Machine-learning techniques.
Machine-learning and data-mining approaches have been
proposed by several authors for finding vulnerabilities. For
example, Scandariato et al. [31] train a classifier on textual
features extracted from source code to determine vulnera-
ble software components. Moreover, several unsupervised
machine-learning approaches have been presented to assist
in the discovery of vulnerabilities. For example, Yamaguchi
et al. [36] introduce a method to expose missing checks in
C source code by combining static tainting and techniques
for anomaly detection. Similarly, Chang et al. [13] present
a data-mining approach to reveal neglected conditions and
discover implicit conditional rules and their violations.
However, in order to identify vulnerabilities, these ap-
proaches concentrate only on features extracted from source
code. In contrast, we show that additional meta informa-
tion, such as the experience of a developer, are valuable
features that improve detection performance.
