3. METHODOLOGY
In this section, we describe how we created a database
of commits that introduced known vulnerabilities in open-
source projects and which features we extracted from the
commits. We will share this database with the research
community as a baseline to enable a scientific comparison
428

===== PAGE 004 =====

between competing approaches. We focus on 66 C and
C++ projects using the version control system Git (see ap-
pendix A for the list). These 66 projects contain 170,860
commits and 718 vulnerabilities reported by CVEs.
3.1 Vulnerability-contributing Commits
In order to analyze the common features of commits that
introduce vulnerabilities, we first needed to find out which
commits actually introduced vulnerabilities. To the best
of our knowledge, no large-scale database exists that maps
vulnerabilities as reported by CVEs to commits. Meneely
et al. and Shin et al. [25, 23, 24] manually created such
mappings for the Mozilla Firefox Browser, Apache HTTP
server and parts of the RHEL Linux kernel. We contacted
the authors to inquire whether they would share this data,
since we could have used that as a baseline for our larger
analysis. Unfortunately, this was not possible at the time,
although the data might be released in the future. To create
a freely available database for ourselves and the research
community, we set out to create a method to automatically
map CVEs to vulnerability-contributing commits. 1
Since at this point we are only interested in CVEs relating
to projects hosted on Github, we utilized two data sources
as starting points for our mapping. As a first source, we
selected all CVEs containing a link to a commit of one of the
66 projects fixing a vulnerability as part of the “proof”. As a
second source for fixing commits, we created a crawler that
searches commit messages of the 66 projects for mentions of
CVE IDs. To check the accuracy of our mapping we took a
random sample of 10 % and manually checked the mapping
and found no incorrectly mapped CVEs. This gave us a
list of 718 CVEs. This list is potentially not complete since
there might be CVEs that do not link to the fixing commit
and which are also not mentioned in the commit messages.
However, this does not represent a problem for our approach
since 718 is a large enough sample to train our classifier.
We then developed and tested a heuristic to proceed from
these fixing commits to the vulnerability-contributing com-
mits (VCCs). Recall that we are operating on Git commits,
which means that we have access to the whole history of a
given project. One (appropriately named) Git subcommand
is git blame, which, given a file, for each line names the
commit that last changed the line. The heuristic for finding
the commit that introduced a vulnerability given a commit
that fixed it is as follows:
1. Ignore changes in documentation such as release notes
or change logs.
2. For each deletion, blame the line that was deleted.
Rationale: If the fix needed to change the line, that
often means that it was part of the vulnerability. Note
that Git diﬀs only know of added and deleted lines. If
a line was changed, it shows up as a deletion and an
addition in the diﬀ.
1We have anonymously uploaded the database
to https://www.dropbox.com/s/x1shbyw0nmd2x45/
vcc-database.dump?dl=0 so the reviewers can access
the raw data during the review process. We will release the
data to the community together with the paper. The file
was created using pg_dump and can be read into a database
using pg_restore. The dump file will create the three
tables cves, commits and repositories in the schema export.
3. For every continuous block of code inserted in the fix-
ing commit, blame the lines before and after the block
Rationale: Security fixes are often done by adding ex-
tra checks, often right before an access or after a func-
tion call.
