4. Finally, mark the commit vulnerable that was blamed
most in the steps above. If two commits were blamed
for the same amount of lines, blame both.
Our heuristic maps the 718 CVEs of our dataset to 640
VCCs. The reason we have fewer VCCs than CVEs is that
a single commit can induce multiple CVEs. To estimate the
accuracy of our heuristic, we took a 15 % random sample
of all VCCs flagged by our heuristic (i.e. 96 VCCs) and
manually checked them. We found only three cases (i.e.
3.1 %) where our heuristic blamed a wrong commit for the
vulnerability. All three of the mis-mappings occurred in
very large commits. For example, one commit of libtiﬀ 2
that fixes CVE-2010-1411 also upgrades libtool to version
2.2.8. The method we propose for VCCFinder is capable of
dealing with noisy datasets, so for the purpose of this work,
an error rate of 3.1 % is acceptable. However, improving our
blame heuristics further is an interesting avenue for future
research.
Apart from the 640 VCCs, we have a large set of 169,502
unclassified commits. We name these commits unclassified,
since, while no CVE points to them, they might still contain
unknown vulnerabilities.
At this point we now have a large dataset mapping CVEs
to vulnerability-contributing commits. Our goal now is to
extract features from these VCCs in order to detect further
potential VCCs in the large number of unclassified commits.
3.2 Features
First we extracted a list of characteristics that we hypoth-
esized could distinguish commits. One of our central hy-
potheses is that combining code metrics with GitHub meta-
data features is beneficial for finding VCCs. First, we test
each feature separately using statistical analysis, e.g. for
each feature we measured whether the distribution of this
feature within the class of vulnerable commits was statisti-
cally diﬀerent from the distribution within all unclassified
commits.
Here is a list of hypotheses concerning metadata we started
with:
•New committers are more likely to introduce security
bugs than frequent contributors.
•It is good to “commit early and often” according to
the Git Best Practices 3. Therefore, longer commits
may be more suspicious than shorter ones.
•Code that has been iterated over frequently, possibly
by many diﬀerent authors, is more suspicious than
code that doesn’t change often. Meneely and Williams
[23] already analyzed these code churn features in their
work. We integrate and combine these features below.
Table 1 shows a list of all features along with a statistical
evaluation (cf. Section 3.4) of all numerical features except
2https://GitHub.com/vadz/libtiﬀ/commit/31040a39
3http://sethrobertson.GitHub.io/GitBestPractices/
#commit
429

===== PAGE 005 =====

mean mean
Feature Scope VCCs others U eﬀect size
Number of commits Repository 282 171 .39 103 980 .95 32143126* 40 %
Number of unique contributors Repository 524 .99 236 .90 30528184* 43 %
Contributions in project Author 5 % 15 % 31263040* 42 %
Additions Commit 306 .19 71 .54 20215148* 62 %
Deletions Commit 73 .93 37 .46 42983290* 20 %
Past changes Commit 627 .17 385 .53 40715632* 24 %
Future changes Commit 792 .46 396 .63 36261346* 33 %
Past diﬀerent authors Commit 40 .16 22 .70 40292116* 25 %
Future diﬀerent authors Commit 136 .58 51 .44 29534644* 45 %
Hunk count Commit 17 .68 9 .88 32348343* 40 %
Commit message 1 Commit - - - -
Commit patch 1 Commit - - - -
Keywords 2 Commit - - - -
Added functions Function 6 .51 1 .03 28724694* 46 %
Deleted functions Function 1 .07 0 .49 50084674* 7 %
Modified functions Function 6 .79 3 .59 41446509* 23 %
1 These features are text-based and thus not considered in the statistical analysis.
2 See Table 2 for a statisical analyis of each keyword.
Table 1: Overview of the features and results of the statistical analysis of the numeric
features. Mann-Whitney U test significant (*) if p< 0.00059.
for project-scoped features. In the following, we discuss the
features. For brevity reasons, we omit the discussion of self-
explaining features here.All our analyses are based on com-
mits. A commit can contain changes to one or more files.
The metrics about files and functions are aggregated in the
corresponding commit.
Features scoped by project are obviously the same for ev-
ery commit in that project. However, in combination with
other commit-based features, these can still become relevant.
3.2.1 Features Scoped by Project
Programming language The primary language the pro-
ject is written in, as determined by GitHub through
their open-source linguist library. In our analysis, we
focused on projects written in either C or C++. The
main reason for limiting our focus to one language was
that we wanted to ensure comparability between the
features extracted from the commit patches. When
mixing diﬀerent languages and syntaxes, this can’t be
ensured. We chose C and C++ specifically since many
security-relevant projects (Linux, Kerberos, OpenSSL,
etc.) are written in these languages.
Star count (number) The number of stars the project
has received on GitHub. Stars are a user’s way of keep-
ing track of interesting projects, as starred projects
show up on the own profile page.
Fork count (number) To fork a project on GitHub means
copying the repository under your personal namespace.
This is often the first step to contributing back to the
project by then making changes under the personal
namespace and sending a pull request to the oﬃcial
repository.
Number of commits (number) We counted the number
of commits that are reachable from the main branches
HEAD. The canonical main branch is “master”, but
some projects like bestpractical/rt use “stable” as the
default branch. In those cases we used the branch set
at GitHub by the maintainer of the project.
3.2.2 Features Scoped by Author
Contributions (percentage) How many commits the au-
thor has made in this project in percent, i.e. the num-
ber of commits authored divided by the number of to-
tal commits.
3.2.3 Features Scoped by Commit
Number of Hunks (number) As a hunk is a continuous
block of changes in a diﬀ, this number assesses how
fragmented the commit is (i.e. lots of changes all over
the project versus one big change in one file or func-
tion).
Patch (text) All changes made by the commit as text rep-
resented as a bag of words.
Patch keywords (number) For each patch, we counted
the number of occurrences of each C/C++ keyword.
See Table 2 for a statistical analysis of the diﬀerent
distributions of each keyword.
3.2.4 Features Scoped by File
Future changes (number) If the commit at hand is not
the most current one, this is the number of times the
file will be changed by later commits. We only use
this feature for our historical analysis and not for the
classifier, since this feature is naturally not available
for new commits.
430

===== PAGE 006 =====

mean mean eﬀect
Keyword VCCs others U size
if 39.00 7 .82 37013390* 70 %
int 31.30 7 .02 39930128* 68 %
struct 32.38 3 .66 39729656* 68 %
return 18.76 3 .60 41342834* 67 %
static 15.17 3 .58 45382955* 64 %
void 12.52 4 .31 63935365* 49 %
unsigned 8.66 1 .51 64440969* 48 %
goto 5.92 0 .43 64798818* 48 %
sizeof 4.37 0 .78 66764357* 46 %
break 5.56 0 .84 74389604* 40 %
char 6.71 2 .68 93400907* 25 %
Table 2: Statistical analysis of C/C++ keywords
sorted by eﬀect size [33], Mann-Whitney U test sig-
nificant (*) if p< 0.000357.
3.3 Excluded Features
As can be seen in Table 1, the vast majority of the fea-
tures depend only on data gathered from the version control
system and not from additional information on GitHub or
any other platform. In fact, we left out some features that
were only available on some projects or for few commits since
the data was too sparse to reveal anything reliable. We will
briefly discuss why we excluded some features which might
seem counter-intuitive.
One feature that would be promising but which we did
not include was issue tracker information. GitHub provides
an issue tracker and even links texts like “fixes #123” in the
commit message to the corresponding issue. However, the
projects which use this feature tend to be smaller projects,
while the older and larger projects for which we have a rich
set of CVE data predominantly use an external issue tracker.
Thus, this feature is not useful for us at this time.
Another piece of information that is interesting - but un-
fortunately too sparse at the moment - is the content of the
discussion surrounding the inclusion of a change into the
main repository. For this information, features could be the
length of the discussion, the number of people involved, or
the mean experience (in terms of contributions) of the people
involved. Projects that use GitHub’s functionalities exten-
sively often do this through “pull requests”. A contributor
submits a commit to his own, unoﬃcial repository and sub-
sequently notifies the maintainer of the oﬃcial repository to
pull in the changes he made. GitHub provides good support
for this work flow, including the ability to make comments
on a pending pull request. Although this data could be use-
ful for the classification of commits, at this point, too few
projects use this work flow to be useful.
3.4 Statistical Analysis of Features
For each numerical feature, we wanted to assess its fit-
ness with respect to distinguishing VCCs from unclassified
commits. We used the Mann-Whitney U test4 in order to
compare the distribution of a given feature within the set
of commits with vulnerabilities against the set of all unclas-
sified commits. The null hypothesis states that the feature
is distributed independently from whether the commit con-
4The Mann-Whitney U test is used to test whether a value
is distributed diﬀerently between two populations.
tained a bug or not. If we can reject the null hypothesis,
the feature is distributed diﬀerently in each set and thus
is a promising candidate as input for the machine-learning
algorithms.
We used the Bonferroni correction to correct for multi-
ple testing for the 17 features we tested. Therefore, we test
against the stricter significance level of 0.00059, which corre-
sponds to a non-corrected p≤0.01 for each individual test.
The date and time features (project age and commit with
time zone) were converted to numerical features based on
seconds that have elapsed since January 1, 1970 UTC (Unix
epoch).
3.4.1 Features Scoped by Project
These features were attributed to the commit depending
on the project the commit was taken from. Since all commits
from a repository, whether containing vulnerabilities or not,
have the same features, these features are too broad to ac-
tually distinguish commits. However, they can be valuable
in combination with other features later on. For brevity, we
do not discuss the features on their own here, though the
table shows the significance testing.
3.4.2 Patch Keyword Features
For each commit we counted the occurrences of each of the
following 28 C/C++ keywords: bool, char, const, extern,
false, float, for, if, int, long, namespace, new, opera-
tor, private, protected, sizeof, static, static, struct,
switch, template, throw, typedef, typename, union, un-
signed, virtual, and volatile. We then used the Mann-
Whitney U test to find out whether the given keyword is
used more or less frequently in VCCs compared to unclassi-
fied commits. Table 2 shows a subset of those keywords with
high significance and high eﬀect. We say that an eﬀect is
significant if p <0.000357, corresponding to 0 .01/28, again
accounting for a Bonferroni correction for multiple testing
for the 28 keywords.
The eﬀect size measures the percentage of pairs that sup-
port the hypothesis. For example, for the keyword if, the
vulnerable commits contain more ifs than the unclassified
commits in 70 % of the cases. As can be seen by looking at
the mean values for each distribution, if there is a statistical
eﬀect, the VCCs are more likely to contain those keywords
compared to unclassified commits.
3.4.3 Features Scoped by Commit or File
All remaining features except for the number of deleted
lines are distributed diﬀerently over VCC versus unclassified
commits, with p= 3.9 ×10−6 the number of hunks being the
least significant result. We note that the fact that a feature
is distributed diﬀerently does not mean that this feature
can be used to distinguish between the two sets. However,
these results provide some hint as to why a machine-learning
approach that uses a combination of these features can be
successful.
The only feature where the diﬀerence was not significant
was the number of deleted lines ( p = 4.6 ×10−4), contrary
to the number of added lines ( p = 3.9 ×10−37), for which
there is a significant diﬀerence in the distribution. When
we manually looked at commits with known vulnerabilities
and compared them to unclassified commits, we saw that
the former often added a great deal of code, whereas the
number of deleted or edited lines were the same as for un-
431

===== PAGE 007 =====

classified commits. This finding confirms the intuition that
security bugs are not commonly introduced by code edits or
refactoring, but that new code is a more likely entry points
for vulnerabilities. To the best of our knowledge this fact
has not been used to ease the workload of code reviewers.
3.4.4 Text-Based Features
One of the central tenets of our work is that combining
code metrics with GitHub metadata can help with the de-
tection of VCCs. While both the code and the metadata
features detailed above are “hard” numerical features, there
are also a number “soft” features contained in GitHub that
can be helpful. These text-based features, like the commit
message, cannot be evaluated using statistical tests as above,
but will be integrated into the machine-learning algorithm
using a generalized bag-of-words model as we will discuss in
Section 4.1.
4. LEARNING-BASED DETECTION
The diﬀerent features presented in the previous sections
provide information for analyzing the search for suspicious
commits and the discovery of potential vulnerabilities. As
the large number of these features renders the manual con-
struction of detection rules diﬃcult, we apply techniques
from the area of machine-learning to automatically analyze
the commits and rank them so code-reviewers can prioritise
their work. The construction of a learning-based classifier,
however, poses several challenges that need to be addressed
to make our approach useful in practice:
1. Generality: Our features comprise information that
range from numerical code metrics to structured meta-
data, such as words in commit messages and keywords
in code. Consequently, we strive for a classifier that is
capable of jointly analyzing these heterogeneous fea-
tures and inferring a combined detection model.
2. Scalability: To analyze large code repositories with
thousands of source files and commits, we require a
very eﬃcient learning method which is able to operate
on the large amount of available features in reasonable
time.
3. Explainability: To help an analyst in practice, it is ben-
eficial if the classifier can give a human-comprehensible
explanation as to why the commit was flagged, instead
of requiring an analyst to blindly trust a black-box de-
cision.
We address these challenges by combining two concepts
from the domains of machine-learning and information re-
trieval. In particular, we first create a joint representation
for the heterogeneous features using a generalized bag-of-
words model and then apply a linear Support Vector Ma-
chine (SVM)-a learning method that can be extended to
provide explanations for its decisions and which is also eﬃ-
cient enough to cope with the large number of features which
need to be analysed.
4.1 Generalized Bag-of-Words Models
Bag-of-word models have been initially designed for anal-
ysis of text documents [30, 29]. In order to combine both
code metric based numerical features with GitHub meta-
data features, we generalize these models by considering a
generic set of tokens S for our analysis. This set can contain
textual words from commit messages as well as keywords,
identifiers and other tokens from the code of a commit. In
particular, we obtain these tokens by splitting the commit
message and its code using spaces and newlines. Further-
more, we ignore certain tokens, such as author names and
email addresses, since they might bias the generality of our
classifier and could compromise privacy.
Formally, we define the mapping ϕ from a commit to a
vector space as
ϕ: X −→R|S|, ϕ : x↦−→
(
b(x,s)
)
s∈S,
where X is the set of all commits and x∈X an individual
commit to be embedded in the vector space. The auxiliary
function b(x,s) returns a binary flag for the presence of a
token s in x and is given by
b(x,s) =
{
1 if token s is contained in x
0 otherwise .
To also incorporate numerical features like the author con-
tribution into this model, we additionally convert all nu-
merical features into strings. This enables us to add all
arbitrary numbers to S and thereby treat both kinds of fea-
tures equally. However, when using a string representation
for numerical features we have to ensure that similar values
are still identified as being similar. This is obviously not
the case for a naive mapping, as “1.01” and “0.99” represent
totally diﬀerent strings.
We tackle this problem by mapping all numerical features
to a discrete grid of bins prior to the vector space embed-
ding. This quantization ensures that similar values fall into
the same bins. We choose diﬀerent bin sizes depending on
the type of the feature. If the numerical values are rather
evenly distributed, we apply a uniform grid, whereas for
features with skewed distribution we a apply a logarithmic
partitioning. For the latter, we apply the logarithmic func-
tion to its values and cut oﬀ all digits after the first decimal
place.
To better understand this generalized bag-of-words model,
let us consider a fictitious commit x, where a patch has been
written by a user who did not contribute to a project before.
The committed patch is written in C and contains a call
to an API function which is associated with a buﬀer write
operation. The corresponding vector representation of the
commit x looks as follows
ϕ(x) ↦→







···
1
0
···
1
0
···







···
AUTHOR_CONTRIBUTION:0.0
AUTHOR_CONTRIBUTION:10.0
···
buf_write_func();
some_other_func();
···
The two tokens indicative of the commit are reflected by
non-zero dimensions, while all unrelated tokens are associ-
ated with zero dimensions. Note that the resulting vector
space is high-dimensional and may contain several thousands
of dimensions. For a concrete commit x, however, the vast
majority of these dimensions are zero and thus the vector
ϕ(x) can be stored in a sparse data structure. We make use
of the open-source tool Sally [27] for this purpose, which
implements diﬀerent strategies for extracting and storing
sparse feature vectors.
432

===== PAGE 008 =====

4.2 Classification and Explainability
While in principle a wide range of methods are available
for learning a classifier for the detection of vulnerability
contributing commits, only few methods scale with larger
amount of data while also providing explanations for their
decisions. One technique satisfying both properties are lin-
ear Support Vector Machines (SVM). This variant of classic
SVMs does not apply the kernel trick for learning, but in-
stead directly operates in the input space. As a result, the
run-time complexity of a linear SVM scales linearly in the
number of vectors and features.
We implement our classifier for commits using the open-
source tool LibLinear [17] that provides diﬀerent optimiza-
tion algorithms for linear SVMs. Each of these algorithms
seeks a hyperplane w that separates two given classes with
maximum margin, in our case corresponding to unclassi-
fied commits and vulnerability-contributing commits. As
the learning is performed in the input space, we can use
this hyperplane vector w for explaining the decisions of our
classifier.
By calculating the inner product between ϕ(x) and the
vector w, we obtain a score which describes the distance from
ϕ(x) to the hyperplane; that is, how likely the commit intro-
duces a vulnerability, f(x) = ⟨ϕ(x),w⟩= ∑
s∈S ws b(x,s).
As this inner product is computed using a summation over
each feature, we can simply test which features provide the
biggest contribution to this distance and thus are causal for
the decision.
Finally, to calibrate free parameters of the linear SVM,
namely the regularization parameter C and the class weight
W, we perform a standard cross-validation on the training
data. We then pick the best values corresponding to a reg-
ularization cost C = 1 and a weight W = 100 for the class
of suspicious commits.
