4. LEARNING-BASED DETECTION
The diﬀerent features presented in the previous sections
provide information for analyzing the search for suspicious
commits and the discovery of potential vulnerabilities. As
the large number of these features renders the manual con-
struction of detection rules diﬃcult, we apply techniques
from the area of machine-learning to automatically analyze
the commits and rank them so code-reviewers can prioritise
their work. The construction of a learning-based classifier,
however, poses several challenges that need to be addressed
to make our approach useful in practice:
1. Generality: Our features comprise information that
range from numerical code metrics to structured meta-
data, such as words in commit messages and keywords
in code. Consequently, we strive for a classifier that is
capable of jointly analyzing these heterogeneous fea-
tures and inferring a combined detection model.
2. Scalability: To analyze large code repositories with
thousands of source files and commits, we require a
very eﬃcient learning method which is able to operate
on the large amount of available features in reasonable
time.
3. Explainability: To help an analyst in practice, it is ben-
eficial if the classifier can give a human-comprehensible
explanation as to why the commit was flagged, instead
of requiring an analyst to blindly trust a black-box de-
cision.
We address these challenges by combining two concepts
from the domains of machine-learning and information re-
trieval. In particular, we first create a joint representation
for the heterogeneous features using a generalized bag-of-
words model and then apply a linear Support Vector Ma-
chine (SVM)-a learning method that can be extended to
provide explanations for its decisions and which is also eﬃ-
cient enough to cope with the large number of features which
need to be analysed.
4.1 Generalized Bag-of-Words Models
Bag-of-word models have been initially designed for anal-
ysis of text documents [30, 29]. In order to combine both
code metric based numerical features with GitHub meta-
data features, we generalize these models by considering a
generic set of tokens S for our analysis. This set can contain
textual words from commit messages as well as keywords,
identifiers and other tokens from the code of a commit. In
particular, we obtain these tokens by splitting the commit
message and its code using spaces and newlines. Further-
more, we ignore certain tokens, such as author names and
email addresses, since they might bias the generality of our
classifier and could compromise privacy.
Formally, we define the mapping ϕ from a commit to a
vector space as
ϕ: X −→R|S|, ϕ : x↦−→
(
b(x,s)
)
s∈S,
where X is the set of all commits and x∈X an individual
commit to be embedded in the vector space. The auxiliary
function b(x,s) returns a binary flag for the presence of a
token s in x and is given by
b(x,s) =
{
1 if token s is contained in x
0 otherwise .
To also incorporate numerical features like the author con-
tribution into this model, we additionally convert all nu-
merical features into strings. This enables us to add all
arbitrary numbers to S and thereby treat both kinds of fea-
tures equally. However, when using a string representation
for numerical features we have to ensure that similar values
are still identified as being similar. This is obviously not
the case for a naive mapping, as “1.01” and “0.99” represent
totally diﬀerent strings.
We tackle this problem by mapping all numerical features
to a discrete grid of bins prior to the vector space embed-
ding. This quantization ensures that similar values fall into
the same bins. We choose diﬀerent bin sizes depending on
the type of the feature. If the numerical values are rather
evenly distributed, we apply a uniform grid, whereas for
features with skewed distribution we a apply a logarithmic
partitioning. For the latter, we apply the logarithmic func-
tion to its values and cut oﬀ all digits after the first decimal
place.
To better understand this generalized bag-of-words model,
let us consider a fictitious commit x, where a patch has been
written by a user who did not contribute to a project before.
The committed patch is written in C and contains a call
to an API function which is associated with a buﬀer write
operation. The corresponding vector representation of the
commit x looks as follows
ϕ(x) ↦→







···
1
0
···
1
0
···







···
AUTHOR_CONTRIBUTION:0.0
AUTHOR_CONTRIBUTION:10.0
···
buf_write_func();
some_other_func();
···
The two tokens indicative of the commit are reflected by
non-zero dimensions, while all unrelated tokens are associ-
ated with zero dimensions. Note that the resulting vector
space is high-dimensional and may contain several thousands
of dimensions. For a concrete commit x, however, the vast
majority of these dimensions are zero and thus the vector
ϕ(x) can be stored in a sparse data structure. We make use
of the open-source tool Sally [27] for this purpose, which
implements diﬀerent strategies for extracting and storing
sparse feature vectors.
432

===== PAGE 008 =====

4.2 Classification and Explainability
While in principle a wide range of methods are available
for learning a classifier for the detection of vulnerability
contributing commits, only few methods scale with larger
amount of data while also providing explanations for their
decisions. One technique satisfying both properties are lin-
ear Support Vector Machines (SVM). This variant of classic
SVMs does not apply the kernel trick for learning, but in-
stead directly operates in the input space. As a result, the
run-time complexity of a linear SVM scales linearly in the
number of vectors and features.
We implement our classifier for commits using the open-
source tool LibLinear [17] that provides diﬀerent optimiza-
tion algorithms for linear SVMs. Each of these algorithms
seeks a hyperplane w that separates two given classes with
maximum margin, in our case corresponding to unclassi-
fied commits and vulnerability-contributing commits. As
the learning is performed in the input space, we can use
this hyperplane vector w for explaining the decisions of our
classifier.
By calculating the inner product between ϕ(x) and the
vector w, we obtain a score which describes the distance from
ϕ(x) to the hyperplane; that is, how likely the commit intro-
duces a vulnerability, f(x) = ⟨ϕ(x),w⟩= ∑
s∈S ws b(x,s).
As this inner product is computed using a summation over
each feature, we can simply test which features provide the
biggest contribution to this distance and thus are causal for
the decision.
Finally, to calibrate free parameters of the linear SVM,
namely the regularization parameter C and the class weight
W, we perform a standard cross-validation on the training
data. We then pick the best values corresponding to a reg-
ularization cost C = 1 and a weight W = 100 for the class
of suspicious commits.
