Fig. 8. Mapping via Inference Through the Digital Artifact Ontology
The cybersecurity analyst needs to know how cyber offense
is covered by cyber defense and vice versa. Therefore, we need
a reasonable mechanism to specify in detail the associations
between these two. Our approach focuses on using the digital
artifacts as the basis for conceptualizing and instantiating
the relations. Both offensive and defensive techniques are
associated with digital artifacts, where associated with is
a generic relationship type for more speciﬁc relationships
of produces, executes, analyzes, accesses, and installs. The
D3FEND knowledge model supports more speciﬁc relation-
ship types between offensive and defensive techniques as well,
for example, observes, detects, and counters. The key beneﬁt
of this layered approach is that we can reason about the
relationships between offensive and defensive techniques by
analyzing how each technique is related to digital artifacts.
This allows us to infer these speciﬁc types of relationships
without needing to manually or directly relate offensive
techniques to defensive techniques (Figure 8). Provided we
accurately represent knowledge about offensive techniques,
defensive techniques, and digital artifacts—each in isolation—
we can accrete knowledge and derive additional knowledge
and insights through inference that otherwise would require
explicit enumeration.
Artifacts are deﬁned in hierarchical speciﬁcity via classiﬁ-
cation, and their subsumption is represented by gold lines in
Figure 8. For example, a Linux service daemon’s conﬁguration
ﬁle is a service conﬁguration ﬁle, which is a System Conﬁgura-
tion File, which is a Conﬁguration File, which is a File— File
being the highest-order and least speciﬁc concept. This allows
us to ascertain the artifacts with which a particular defensive
technique is associated, with as much speciﬁcity as possible,
while still maintaining the ability to ask general questions
like, “which defensive techniques are associated with ﬁles?”
or more speciﬁc questions like “which defensive techniques
are associated with daemon conﬁguration ﬁles?”
V. R OAD MAP
There are three roadmap focus areas for the D3FEND
project: improve and demonstrate the model utility for practi-
tioners, deepen and widen the model via analytics, and update
the model as the industry changes.
A. Model Utility
Semantic models are most useful when they are adopted;
they create a common language. We will use the model in
real-world use cases with cybersecurity architects and engi-
neers. Success of the model is practitioner adoption and a
positive consensus on its usefulness across multiple use cases.
Garnering adoption will be an iterative process where we
employ the model, qualitatively assess its usefulness, and make
improvements.
One assessment will use the model to differentiate and
analyze cybersecurity products. Large organizations receive
many inbound requests from technology vendors. Our hope
is that D3FEND clariﬁes the speciﬁc functionality a product
offers and reduces the amount of time spent analyzing vendor
marketing material. Another assessment will analyze a com-
puter network’s existing countermeasures and identify which
defensive techniques are present. We will start by asking a
cybersecurity architect what technologies they have related to
the base techniques, as a breadth-ﬁrst analysis. We hope this
will identify any functionality gaps or overlap.
As we work through the use cases, we will track how much
of the model was used and how many new techniques were
added. Our hypothesis is that semantic reuse will increase over
time, eventually reducing the frequency of additions to the
model. We expect to follow-up this preliminary paper shortly
with one that provides greater detail on the application of
D3FEND to one or more speciﬁc capability analysis scenarios.
B. Model Depth, Breadth, and Technology Development
We must analyze more intellectual property to grow the
knowledge graph. Due to the size of the ever-growing dataset,
