Fig. 1. Cybersecurity Patent Applications 2001-2018
of the core countermeasure functionality and are not the focus
of D3FEND.
D3FEND is primarily concerned with abstract and generic
semantics versus vendor speciﬁc terminology or technical jar-
gon. However, analysis of technical jargon is usually required
to select effective semantics—and in some cases create or
deﬁne useful new semantics. For example, for D3FEND we
ﬁrst included an abstract deﬁnition of a Kernel instead of
the Microsoft terminology: “Windows Kernel” or “Windows
NT Kernel”, thereby enabling our Kernel concept to apply to
the “Linux Kernel” as well. When needed, D3FEND users
will be able to extend this with more speciﬁc deﬁnitions of
kernel types by subclassing speciﬁc OS kernels and also by
compositions of their parts (e.g, ”Kernel Module” elements).
B. Data Sources
The data used to build D3FEND underpins our new ap-
proach to systematically understanding cybersecurity counter-
measures. The research team developed the model directly
from the research claims in the literature in a bottom-up
fashion, linking each countermeasure through speciﬁc citations
to the literature and integrating those into higher-level abstrac-
tions. We discuss patents, existing knowledge bases, and other
data sources.
1) Patents: Inventors ﬁle thousands of patent applications
each year for technologies and methods for defensive cyber-
security techniques. We downloaded all U.S. Patent Ofﬁce
ﬁlings from 2001 to January 2019. A key phrase search
against this corpus 1 shows an ever-increasing publishing rate
on cybersecurity patents in Figure 1.
The patent corpus was our initial focus for multiple rea-
sons. There is strong motivation for inventors, investors, and
organizations to describe and distinguish how their cyberse-
curity technologies work in patents. This due to the various
protections patents provide for intellectual property owners. It
is also a highly curated corpus with category codes, citations,
and an ofﬁcial legally-authoritative assessment of the novelty
of their claims. In our experience, vendor white papers and
1Apache Solr search terms: ”information assurance” ”cyber security” ”cy-
bersecurity” ”infosec” ”information security” ”network security” ”computer
security” ”computer network defense” ”network defense” ”malware” ”com-
puter hacking” ”computer virus” ”data exﬁltration” ”cyber warfare” ”infor-
mation warfare” ”intrusion detection” ”intrusion prevention” ”indicators of
compromise” ”security information events” ”cryptographic” ”cryptography”
Fig. 2. Example Intellectual Property Development Network
marketing material do not sufﬁciently explain how the tech-
nologies work at an engineering level, nor do they do so in
as uniform a manner as patents. To date, there appears to be
no comprehensive public analysis of the cybersecurity patent
corpus for the purpose of developing a knowledge graph of
cyber countermeasures.
This corpus, while useful, has numerous issues that need to
be understood when using it for our purpose. In some cases,
the corpus is adversarial. For example, in academic papers,
the citations tend to have high ﬁdelity because researchers
are incentivized to accurately represent prior scientiﬁc knowl-
edge. Patents also have citations and prior art enumerations.
However, these are often selected to bolster the case that the
new patent is truly novel, useful, and non-obvious for business
purposes. This is done without the peer review process used
in academia.
Forty percent of U.S. patented inventions are not used.
About half of these are patents meant to block competitors or
to be used as bargaining chips in inter-ﬁrm negotiations [36].
Our study catalogs all cyber-defense approaches, whether yet
practiced or not; use of the D3FEND knowledge graph may
identify an unpracticed approach and encourage innovation
and productization in that category. Furthermore, because our
survey focuses on recent inventions in an emergent ﬁeld, the
“not used” distinction is ephemeral in many instances.
2) Existing Knowledge Bases: We analyzed the MITRE
Cyber Analytic Repository [34] and mapped its analytics to the
alpha version of D3FEND. The repository primarily contains
detection analytics that consume endpoint telemetry. We also
analyzed the ATT&CK knowledge base and developed a way
to relate it to D3FEND, as discussed in Section IV-E.
3) Other Data Sources: We have also analyzed other data
sources. Some of these sources include academic papers, tech-
nical speciﬁcations, and publicly available product technical
documentation.
4) Key Findings: After reviewing these data sources, we
determined that these available intellectual property documents
could serve as the foundation for a cybersecurity countermea-
sure knowledge graph. We also were hopeful the resulting
knowledge graph would be coherent and useful to cybersecu-
rity architects. The D3FEND knowledge graph was built from
the patent corpus primarily due to its scope, speciﬁcity, and
