Fig. 6. Key Dimensions of Semantic Speciﬁcity
We distinguish the top-level techniques as base techniques ,
from which all the other techniques are derived. For example,
the technique process code segment veriﬁcation falls under the
base technique “Process Analysis.”
As we grouped the techniques, we identiﬁed another higher-
level concept, the defensive tactic. A defensive tactic is the
most general organizing class in the D3FEND knowledge
graph; see Figure 4. A defensive tactic is a maneuver in
response to some adversary action. These are action-oriented
and carefully selected terms to generalize multiple techniques.
Example defensive tactics we identiﬁed are Detect, Harden,
Deceive, Evict, and Isolate.
The tactics are represented in the top row, and the base
techniques are represented in the second row of Figure 3.
More speciﬁc defensive techniques appear in the columns
below the base techniques. Techniques belong to only one base
technique; in general, techniques form a hierarchy from the
most general to the most speciﬁc. For clarity, only two levels
of the defensive technique hierarchy are depicted in Figure 3.
Finally, the circled number in the individual techniques rep-
resents the number of source documents analyzed to develop
the technique.
An implicit notion of state is expressed in terms chosen
for tactics. A defender cannot Evict an adversary if he cannot
Detect the adversary, and he cannot Detect the adversary if
they are not there. Ideally, the defender would Harden his
environment before the adversary penetrates it.
Tactics are the maneuvers defenders take against an
adversary—“the what” of an action. The techniques are the
methods used to employ those actions—“the how” of imple-
menting the tactic. We say that these tactics are enabled by
the techniques.
E. Digital Objects, Digital Artifacts, and Technique Mapping
A key construct in D3FEND is the Digital Artifact Ontol-
ogy (DAO) . This ontology speciﬁes the concepts necessary
to classify and represent the digital objects of interest for
cybersecurity analysis. In the D3FEND knowledge model, a
Fig. 7. Offensive and Defensive Techniques Mapping Via Digital Artifacts
digital object becomes a digital artifact when a cyber actor,
either defensive or offensive, interacts with the object in any
way. To ensure a reasonable modeling scope, the D3FEND
knowledge model is only concerned with capturing knowledge
about digital artifacts relevant to known cyber actors and
known technologies—not all possible digital objects or their
representations.
Related work in the ﬁeld developed vocabularies to list and
deﬁne common concepts used in cyber defense operations.
Some limitations of these vocabularies motivated the construc-
tion of the D3FEND DAO, as these vocabularies were often
syntactic rather than semantic, included vendor speciﬁc con-
cepts, and were enumerative versus taxonomical. Furthermore,
these vocabularies did not specify the relationships between
concepts. Finally, their purview was security operations and
incident response versus capability engineering. Therefore, it
was necessary to develop the D3FEND DAO as more abstract
semantic constructs, to unify the representation and enable
vendor-agnostic and inferential reasoning.
The term artifact was chosen in the archaeological sense
(e.g., some human put some artifact somewhere). If it does
not exist in some form within some computer or computer
network infrastructure, it is out of scope of the ontology. A
digital artifact need not be observable or accessible, but it must
possibly exist. An artifact may also comprise other artifacts,
thus enabling the representation of compound artifacts; see
Figure 8.
Digital artifacts also establish the conceptual scope of the
D3FEND knowledge model. For example, a strong password
policy is in scope because it directly affects an organization’s
technology conﬁguration baseline, therefore it involves digital
artifacts. As a counter-example, many organizations invest in
employee cybersecurity awareness training programs. Training
programs do not directly interact with digital artifacts, there-
fore they are not in scope.
When an attacker types on his keyboard and performs open-
source internet research, he produces digital artifacts. When he
develops software exploits, sends malicious phishing links, or
operates a remotely controlled host in his target’s environment,
he creates digital artifacts on both his system, intermediate
systems, and target systems. Whether the defensive actors can
observe the attacker’s digital artifacts depends on their vantage
point and capabilities. Figure 7 illustrates these interactions
between offensive and defensive techniques in a simpliﬁed
way.
