Toward a Knowledge Graph of
Cybersecurity Countermeasures
Peter E. Kaloroumakis
The MITRE Corporation
Annapolis Junction, MD
pk@mitre.org
Michael J. Smith
The MITRE Corporation
Annapolis Junction, MD
smithmj@mitre.org
Abstract—This paper describes our research and development
toward a precise, unambiguous, and information-dense knowl-
edge graph of cybersecurity countermeasures. In project work
for our sponsors we have repeatedly encountered the need for
a model that can identify and precisely specify cybersecurity
countermeasure components and capabilities. Furthermore, it
is necessary that practitioners know not only what threats a
capability claims to address, but, speciﬁcally how those threats
are addressed from an engineering perspective, and under
what circumstances the solution would work. This knowledge
is essential to estimate operational applicability, vulnerabilities,
and develop enterprise solutions comprising multiple capabilities.
To address this recurring need in the near-term, we created
D3FEND, a framework in which we encode a countermeasure
knowledge base, but more speciﬁcally, a knowledge graph. The
graph contains semantically rigorous types and relations that
deﬁne both the key concepts in the cybersecurity countermeasure
domain and the relations necessary to link those concepts to
each other. We ground each of the concepts and relations to
particular references in the cybersecurity literature. Numerous
sources of research and development literature were analyzed,
including a targeted sample of over 500 countermeasure patents
drawn from the U.S. Patent Ofﬁce corpus over the years 2001 to
2018. To demonstrate the value of this approach in practice, we
describe how the graph supports queries that can inferentially
map cybersecurity countermeasures to offensive TTPs. As part
of a larger vision, we outline future D3FEND work to leverage
the linked open data available on research literature and apply
machine learning, in particular semi-supervised methods, to assist
in maintaining the D3FEND knowledge graph over time. Finally,
we welcome community feedback on D3FEND.
Index Terms—countermeasures, cybersecurity, cyber defense,
intrusion detection, knowledge acquisition, knowledge engineer-
ing, knowledge graph, linked data, network security, ontology,
procedures, tactics, techniques, TTPs
I. I NTRODUCTION
The cybersecurity defense market comprises more than
5,000 companies [1]. More than 6,000 cybersecurity patent
applications were ﬁled in 2018 (Figure 1). Cyber defense
teams also implement their own countermeasures to address
what vendor products do not. These custom capabilities are
often shared through open-source software communities. In a
cycle of adaptation, countermeasures are rapidly developed in
response to rapidly changing offensive techniques.
Funded by the United States Department of Defense. Approved for Public
Release; Distribution Unlimited. Case 20-2034. Copyright 2021 The MITRE
Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
A cybersecurity countermeasure is any process or tech-
nology developed to negate or offset offensive cyber activi-
ties. It is not enough to understand what a countermeasure
does—what it detects, what it prevents. We must understand
how it does it. A security architect must understand their
organization’s countermeasures—precisely what they do, how
they do it, and their limitations—if countermeasures are to
be effectively employed. A red team conducting an exercise
to identify security gaps must plan their engagement with
expert knowledge of a countermeasure’s functionality if they
are to evade it. A venture capitalist considering a cybersecurity
startup must understand what problem it is trying to solve,
whether and how it has been solved before, and why the
proposed solution is better or novel.
Existing cybersecurity knowledge bases do not explain with
enough ﬁdelity and structure what these countermeasures do
to meet these needs, we reviewed prominent knowledge bases
discussed in section II. Furthermore, no framework or model
exists that has had its knowledge content sustained at the rate
of change in the cybersecurity space. D3FEND™ establishes
a ﬁne-grained semantic model of countermeasures, their prop-
erties, relationships, and history of development. We have also
deﬁned a semantic model of a portion of MITRE’s ATT&CK®
framework [15] to represent the offensive TTPs with the same
common, standardized semantic language (OWL DL). This
enables us to incorporate ATT&CK by mapping its concepts
directly to D3FEND’s model of defensive techniques and ar-
tifacts. D3FEND provides a methodology for curating content
into new knowledge and tying it to its source information in
meaningful ways. Finally, this paper provides a research road
map for harvesting and analyzing content at the industry’s
pace, using and extending the promising human language
technologies and semi-supervised learning.
D3FEND’s longer-term goals are to (1) create a sustain-
able knowledge framework for characterizing and relating
cybersecurity countermeasure technology; and (2) accelerate
knowledge discovery and acquisition efforts required to keep
pace with technological changes in the cyber domain. The
D3FEND knowledge graph we have constructed can be di-
rectly embedded within the much larger web of datasets
available within the Linked Open Data Cloud [41]. These
will be used to connect our knowledge to research literature,
organizations, authors, inventors, and investors. We believe
