domain, the categories are often broad and only taxonomical;
they do not describe key attributes of the technologies detailed
in the patents.
E. Formal Modeling of Cybersecurity Domain Knowledge
There have been many efforts to model the cybersecurity
domain formally and create knowledge representations for ex-
change and shared understanding. In 2007, Herzog, Shamehri,
and Duma created a detailed model of information security,
including threat, asset, and countermeasure classes and rela-
tionships among them [20]. Fenz, Pruckner, and Manutscheri
built on this by creating guidelines for mapping information
security knowledge from one standard to a more formal secu-
rity model [21]. Wang and Guo created a formal knowledge
model to capture key relationships between vulnerabilities,
products, countermeasures, and actors—incorporating CVE,
the Common Vulnerability Scoring System, CWE, CPE, and
CAPEC—to describe patterns of threats and vulnerability
management to make inferences and assist users in decision
making [22].
In 2012, MITRE reported on a trade study performed
with the goal of creating a general cyber knowledge model
and method for extending its core over a series of iterative
improvements [23]. This team focused their initial work on
building a model from the MAEC language and prior malware
conceptual models of Swimmer, which were developed for the
purpose of data exchange between security software products.
From this, Obrst et al provide a vision for a much broader
cyber knowledge architecture and provide a useful survey
of cyber-related knowledge representations and standards to
contextualize their work and the architecture.
Oltramari et al. created a basic architecture with the key
elements and interactions to support situational awareness
in the cybersecurity domain and then provided a modeling
example using their approach [24]. Salem et al. created the
TAPIO tool, which extracts operational data and integrates data
from numerous sources into a knowledge graph and enables
real-time exploration of the causes and effects of cyber events
[25].
Syed et al. created the Uniﬁed Cybersecurity Ontology
(UCO) model by integrating several existing knowledge
schemas and standards into a common model for the cyber-
security domain; like Oltramari et al, their model supports
cyber situational-awareness scenarios [26]. In 2019, the Cyber-
investigation Analysis Standard Expression (CASE) commu-
nity was formed to coordinate a community-developed spec-
iﬁcation language to “serve the broadest range of interests in
cyber-investigation domains including: digital forensic science,
incident response, counter-terrorism, criminal justice, forensic
intelligence, and situational awareness.” CASE aligns with and
extends the UCO.
F . Successes Using Knowledge Graphs and Linked Data
Recent advances in knowledge modeling and linked data
technology have enabled its adoption in several domains. The
technology has proven fundamental to the medical, biological
sciences, and bioinformatics communities in cataloging and
deeply understanding complex patterns in medical datasets
and genomes. Scientists can now rapidly share knowledge
and collaborate on complex chemical and protein interactions.
The Uniﬁed Medical Language System [27] has integrated
213 medical vocabularies [28]. Bioinformatics researchers
can leverage and tie together knowledge contained in The
European Molecular Biology Laboratory and European Bioin-
formatics Institute’s open data resources and The Universal
Protein Resource, which contains protein sequence and anno-
tation data.
The Schema.org vocabulary [29] is an open data community
founded by Google, Microsoft, Yahoo, and Yandex. The
schema has been developed through a community process.
Schema.org builds on semantic web concepts and facilitates
data exchanges and a shared understanding between sites
choosing to share structured social data and aggregators of that
social data. Google uses schema.org types for its Knowledge
Graph Search API [30]. Thomson Reuters is investing in this
technology as well, creating and spinning off a knowledge
graph group for ﬁnancial data [31] and news content.
Immediately relevant to the D3FEND knowledge graph and
methodology are pre-existing open linked data resources. We
see opportunities to rapidly integrate pertinent open linked data
readily available, including patent data (and patent coding sys-
tems), authors, researchers, inventors, and organizations. We
believe D3FEND may be enhanced by using and referencing
these open linked datasets with standards-based linked data
technologies.
III. M ETHODOLOGY
A. Frameworks, Models, and Knowledge Graphs
There are three key information organization approaches we
use to create D3FEND. A conceptual framework which “ex-
plains, either graphically or in narrative form, the main things
to be studied—the key factors, constructs, or variables—and
the presumed relationships among them” [32]. A domain
knowledge model which “is used to reduce conceptual and
terminological confusion” and foster communication, reusabil-
ity, and cooperation [33]. Finally, a knowledge graph which
provides a ﬂexible representation of knowledge and enables
complex machine reasoning about the domain.
To support the recurring need for effective and clear coun-
termeasure capability speciﬁcations, we aspire to (1) provide a
conceptual framework that incorporates a domain knowledge
model of the cyber countermeasure domain, (2) populate the
framework and model to complete a knowledge graph, and (3)
relate countermeasures to the ATT&CK framework’s offensive
counterparts and to the larger domain space of structured cyber
knowledge.
D3FEND models core countermeasure functionality and the
knowledge relationships necessary to effectively understand
and contextualize that functionality. Countermeasure technolo-
gies perform many functions with their software or hardware
components. Some functions directly counter adversary behav-
ior. Others are more administrative in nature and supportive
