availability. These data sources are published or made public
in various formats and venues. The cybersecurity community
has a diverse group of participants ranging from technicians
to academics. Intellectual property is developed by the whole
spectrum of participants. Example data sources are depicted
in Figure 2. The ﬁgure also illustrates the intellectual property
development network which produces cybersecurity counter-
measure technology. We also determined these datasets are
too large to analyze entirely manually. However, we started
with a manual analysis process so that we can better develop
automated means.
C. Countermeasure Analysis Process
Our initial approach included some preliminary efforts
to use natural language processing techniques to organize,
summarize, and classify the technologies claimed in the docu-
ments, primarily U.S. patent applications. We experimented
with unsupervised topic modeling and text summarization
algorithms. We determined these preliminary methods were
not sufﬁcient to create a semantic representation that would be
useful to cybersecurity practitioners at the outset. Supervised
and semi-supervised machine-learning approaches were not
tried, as we did not yet have a countermeasure or artifact
classiﬁcation system or a set of ﬁxed terms and thus were
unable to provide labeled training data.
Our early efforts to use existing high-level models and work
top down to speciﬁc countermeasures, or to propose our own
high-level models absent the enumeration of countermeasure
instances, did not prove to be an effective approach to create
the desired framework of concepts and vocabulary. Our ex-
perience is that without anchoring the framework to speciﬁc
instances from the outset, establishing team consensus for the
vocabulary was difﬁcult and was considered too subjective
and too biased toward individual contributor’s experience and
background. Given this experience, we focused on describing
speciﬁc technologies and built up a hierarchy of semantic
abstractions which are directly linked to the original references
to enhance the ﬁdelity of the knowledge graph.
With a mindset towards automation, we began to manually
analyze, summarize, and formulate semantics that describe
the defensive techniques contained in the intellectual property
documents. We then recorded the analyses in our database,
creating a new labeled dataset. This resulted in a database with
a vocabulary of countermeasure techniques, and references
to source documents where the concepts are described. This
process relied on our subject matter expertise and was labor
intensive but necessary to develop an initial semantic model
of the countermeasure space. In addition, we plan to use these
analyses to research training algorithms to both reﬁne the
initial model and expedite the development and recognition
of new countermeasure techniques.
The team reviewed over 500 cybersecurity patents selected
based on multiple criteria, and analyzed those with substantial
technical detail. We initially focused on “detection” oriented
vendors because the team had familiarity with the domain. We
chose vendors from IDC’s Worldwide Cybersecurity Products
Taxonomy, 2019 [19] and analyzed their patents. Some of
these technologies do more than just detect unauthorized
activity. We incorporated these additional techniques and cat-
egorized them in the D3FEND knowledge graph.
We approached the problem with a focus on countermeasure
activity. We drew on two related systems engineering ap-
proaches to describing and understanding system activity: ac-
tivity models [38] [39] and uses cases [40]. These approaches
helped us frame two related sets of questions to capture the
key aspects of the intellectual property when examining it in
terms of being a defensive technique. The ﬁrst set aimed to
capture the core functional activity, and a second set captured
key user interaction aspects. Both sets are shown in Table I.
Given the volume of cybersecurity data and potential demands
for users to stay in or on the decision loops (i.e., monitor
and handle system alerts), we placed a particular emphasis on
scaling concerns, both in implementing the basic capability
and consequent user interactions.
TABLE I
TECHNIQUE ELICITATION QUESTIONS
How does the technology work? Activity model element
What are the data inputs? Activity Input
What are the data outputs? Activity Output
When does the analysis occur? Activity Control
What are the analytical algorithms? Activity Mechanism
How does it work at scale? Activity Mechanism
How can it be circumvented? Activity Mechanism
How do humans interact with the tech-
nology?
Activity model element
What must the human user do? User Responsibilities
How does this interaction scale? User-System Relationship
The team quickly realized that this was too time consuming,
and in many cases it was not possible to answer every question
for each intellectual property document. Additionally, many
technologies solved multiple problems, i.e., they contained
multiple D3FEND techniques. We then improved our process
with a new approach.
We noticed that data input types to the technologies were
a key factor in understanding how the technology works and
anchoring them to defensive techniques. Prior work by MITRE
focused analytic development around an object enumeration,
though the scope of the enumeration was focused on process
objects rather than the entire countermeasure space [18]. This
led us to create the D3FEND Digital Artifact Ontology to
deﬁne these data input types with a higher degree of speciﬁcity.
This concept is further discussed in section IV-E.
The knowledge and facts extracted during these analyses are
recorded in the D3FEND knowledge graph; where possible
we answered some of these initial questions for particular
technologies or D3FEND techniques. The current knowledge
graph is alpha level; we are adding features and information
necessary to be useful to a public audience. Our road-map
section explains our plan for developing a feature–complete
beta release.
