Fig. 5. Code (text) Segments and Process Memory Layout [37]
B. D3FEND Technique Semantics
A D3FEND technique is the central and most important
concept in the D3FEND knowledge model. They are curated
by D3FEND technique researchers. Cybersecurity technolo-
gies can be complex and may comprise multiple D3FEND
techniques. Semantically, a D3FEND technique is represented
as a concise phrase that captures signiﬁcant information. This
is difﬁcult to do because it is a high-dimensional optimization
problem.
Terms are selected for maximum information and minimal
confusion. Cybersecurity is a multi-disciplinary ﬁeld; this
requires the technique researcher to be competent in not only
the primary cybersecurity domain but also adjacent domains
such as computer science and architecture, data analytics,
social sciences, and information technology architecture. The
D3FEND technique researcher must anticipate the potentially
numerous interpretations that people of different technical
backgrounds may have and then select optimal, accurate, and
precise terms. In general, the semantic context of computer
science and computer engineering domains takes precedence
over other domains.
C. Example Technique: Process Code Segment Veriﬁcation
To better explain the core concepts used in D3FEND,
we will discuss an example D3FEND technique— process
code segment veriﬁcation —that was discovered through our
development process. Here we will explain why those words
were chosen, what they mean, and what they and the resulting
knowledge graph entries enable the user to do.
Using our methodology, we identiﬁed and analyzed hun-
dreds of pieces of publicly disclosed intellectual property from
various cybersecurity vendors to extract D3FEND techniques.
We began to group and describe these techniques semantically.
In the case of process code segment veriﬁcation , we deter-
mined several vendors were trying to solve the same technical
problem in very different ways. These technologies were
developed over two decades and deployed in radically dif-
ferent form-factors ranging from endpoint software agents to
software compiler technologies. Additionally, their analytical
approaches to veriﬁcation were different. It was apparent
there may be advantages and disadvantages to the different
approaches. Despite the signiﬁcant differences, these technolo-
gies were designed to solve the same problem: verify that the
code segments (also known as text segments—Figure 5) within
a running process were as expected.
To accurately make claims that a product implements a
given technique, we must understand the technique’s seman-
tics. We deﬁne the term process code segment to mean the
portions of memory assigned to a running process that contain
machine code for execution. These code segments are usually
loaded from disk when the application is executed to launch
the process. By specifying process code segment we explain
that this technique is not concerned with the application image
on disk but its state once it is loaded into the memory of a
launched process. Veriﬁcation suggests that we are not only
concerned with the integrity of the code segment but that
a source of truth exists to verify against. This technique
name is rooted in the computer science domain; the term
code segment is used in many computer science textbooks
to describe the machine code portions of an executable ﬁle.
Additional research is required to objectively quantify the
quality of technique names.
Now that we have vocabulary for understanding a speciﬁc
D3FEND technique, we can ask the vendor key questions:
Under what circumstances does your technology read and
verify the process code segments? What is the source of truth
used in the veriﬁcation of the code segments; is it on the
victim machine or a remote system? What happens if the code
segments are determined to be invalid? The answers to these
questions were interesting and illustrated the creativity and
cleverness of the cybersecurity technology developers.
This knowledge, intellectual property references, and anal-
ysis were recorded in our D3FEND knowledge graph under
the technique Process Code Segment Veriﬁcation. With this
information organized and the intellectual property catalogued,
practitioners are now able not only to understand how the
technique works but also to consider which approach is more
suitable to their unique requirements.
Our example— process code segment veriﬁcation —
illustrates positioning within two key dimensions of semantic
speciﬁcity, Figure 6. The level of speciﬁcity required for
describing functionality is dependent on usage context.
Our taxonomical approach accommodates various levels of
speciﬁcity. This enables the model to be easily tailored to a
particular use case. For example, an acquisition analyst may
require more generalization, while an engineer may require
more speciﬁcity.
D. D3FEND Tactics & Techniques
As we developed techniques in the D3FEND knowledge
graph, we identiﬁed sets of similar techniques that had com-
mon relationships. For example, some techniques primarily
analyze raw network trafﬁc, while others focus purely on
process analysis. These techniques then naturally grouped
together further to organize more general types of techniques.
