the representation chosen also provides a strong foundation
for research furthering automation, including machine-learning
approaches.
This paper explains how we collected and analyzed data to
produce the initial version of the model. In the following sec-
tions we discuss related work, our methodology, the resulting
knowledge graph of countermeasure techniques, and ﬁnally
our roadmap for future work.
II. R ELATED WORK
Related prior work includes early cybersecurity standards
and formats, government and commercial cybersecurity threat
frameworks and knowledge bases, commercial product tax-
onomies, and formal information modeling in cybersecurity
and other domains.
A. MITRE-initiated Cybersecurity Standards and Formats
Over the past two decades, MITRE has developed standard
languages and formats to capture cybersecurity information:
Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE®) [2], Common
Weakness Enumeration (CWE™) [3], Open Vulnerability and
Assessment Language (OV AL®) [4], Common Platform Enu-
meration (CPE™) [5], Common Event Expression (CEE™)
[6], Common Attack Pattern Enumeration and Classiﬁcation
(CAPEC™) [7], Malware Attribute Enumeration and Charac-
terization (MAEC™) [8], and Cyber Observables (CybOX™)
[9] languages. These shared vocabularies and disambiguating
references are useful for cybersecurity practitioners to record
and exchange cyber threat knowledge. CybOX, MAEC, and
CAPEC introduced more taxonomic and relational informa-
tion; their elements have been incorporated into the Structured
Threat Information eXpression (STIX™) OASIS™ standard
for Cyber Threat Intelligence (CTI). Together these provide
references on which we build a detailed, explicit model of
countermeasures.
B. Cybersecurity Threat Frameworks
The National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)
created and updates the Cybersecurity Framework, which
provides security guidance for organizations to align their
cybersecurity activities to manage their cybersecurity risk
around an Identify-Protect-Detect-Respond-Recover paradigm
[10]. This paradigm is broader than the kill-chain models we
discuss next, but it is focused on activity and organization
rather than engineering or technology. NIST also maintains
the National Vulnerability Database, the U.S. government
repository of standards-based vulnerability management data
for security controls enumerated in NIST 800-53 [11]. NIST
maps these relevant security controls to the activities deﬁned
in the Cybersecurity Framework.
Kill-chain oriented and derived threat models have proved
popular and effective. New models like D3FEND must relate
to these to ensure rapid uptake by the cyber community and
easy integration with existing resources. The U.S. Department
of Defense Cyber Analysis and Review and U.S. Department
of Homeland Security Cybersecurity Architecture Review
(.govCAR) frameworks serve as threat-based tools for high-
level characterization of cyber threats and mitigations, and a
means to identify gaps in cyber portfolios and architectures
[12]. The Ofﬁce of the Director of National Intelligence has
created the Cyber Threat Framework to serve as a shared
lexicon to characterize and categorize cyber threat events
[13]. The National Security Agency’s Technical Cyber Threat
Framework added extensive technical detail [14]. MITRE’s
ATT&CK has inﬂuenced and been inﬂuenced by these frame-
works.
C. ATT&CK
In “Finding Cyber Threats with ATT&CK-Based Analyt-
ics,” MITRE created an analytic development methodology
focused on detecting post-compromise adversary behaviors
[15]. This revolutionized the language security practitioners
use to discuss their work. Vendors began to describe what
speciﬁc adversary behaviors their products were able to detect,
prevent, or monitor. ATT&CK primarily modeled adversary
behavior via offensive techniques organized by the tactical
objectives they support. ATT&CK has since amassed an online
knowledge base of threat actor techniques [17].
ATT&CK™ knowledge (also encoded via STIX) is an
especially critical counterpart to D3FEND. D3FEND focuses
on countermeasures. The two can be related as explained in
section IV-E.
The Cyber Analytics Repository (CAR) was a key product
of MITRE’s ATT&CK work. CAR identiﬁes objects related
to key operating system and processing events [18] with its
CAR Data Model, it also catalogs MITRE developed analytics
and maps them to speciﬁc ATT&CK techniques they were
designed to detect. The initial D3FEND release incorporates
the CAR analytics developed, but whereas CAR modeled data
from endpoint telemetry software and the associated analytics
from a Security Operations Center Operator’s perspective,
D3FEND models the countermeasure space from a hard-
ware or software engineer’s perspective. Therefore, D3FEND’s
scope is limited only by the scope of the cybersecurity
technology space.
D. Commercial Product Taxonomies
Commercial product taxonomies tend to organize by form-
factor or intended buyer rather than function. This is useful
for understanding which vendors might be relevant but does
not explain in enough detail how the products work or what
they do. However, there are implicit sets of features or func-
tions that each grouping represents. Cybersecurity marketing
vocabulary changes at such a pace that analyst ﬁrms produce
new taxonomies each year despite only modest changes in the
underlying technical functionality [19].
Patent systems also provide taxonomies of technological
innovation and assign one or more of these codes to individ-
ual patents. The International Patent Classiﬁcation system of
70,000 codes, and its extension, the Cooperative Patent Clas-
siﬁcation system, are used to curate patents and are managed
by the European and U.S. patent ofﬁces. In the cybersecurity
