f discovering vulnerabilities from modified components.
5.4 Speed and scalability of M OVERY
In this section, we evaluate the speed and scalability of
MOVERY in VCC discovery. We classify the total time tak-
ing to discover VCCs into signature generation (i.e., the
elapsed time for generating signatures), target preprocessing
(i.e., the elapsed time for analyzing the target software), and
matching times (i.e., the elapsed time required to discover the
VCCs). We measured all the times for MOVERY , ReDeBug,
and VUDDY , and then compared the results.
Signature generation time. The signature generation time
using the collected 4,219 security patches (see Table 2) was
2 h in VUDDY and 32 h in MOVERY ; because ReDeBug
USENIX Association 31st USENIX Security Symposium    3047

===== PAGE 013 =====
(a) Target preprocessing times.
 (b) Matching times.
 (c) Total times (preprocessing + matching).
Figure 4: Target preprocessing and matching time spent on target software with various sizes.
utilized the security patches as they were, there was no need
for signature generation time. Unlike VUDDY , which simply
extracts vulnerable functions, MOVERY required more time
as it needed to reconstruct the oldest vulnerable functions and
analyze the code line dependencies of functions; note that the
signature generation is a one-time task.
Target preprocessing and matching times.Figure 4 shows
the target preprocessing and matching times for the three tools.
The results present the following three main observations.
(1) VUDDY requires the longest target preprocessing time.
(2) MOVERY requires the longest matching time.
(3) In total elapsed time,MOVERY requires the least amount
of time and VUDDY requires the longest time (owing to
its long preprocessing time).
To precisely discover VCCs,MOVERY used the finer granular-
ity (i.e., a set of code lines) that is slower than function units
in VCC discovery [17], and further considered dependencies
of code lines in matching, resulting in a longer matching time