I. I NTRODUCTION
As software evolves various innovative functionalities
nowadays (e.g., AI-based classification, unmanned operations),
it makes software increasingly complicated and challenging to
develop and maintain because of intricate dependencies among
its massive functions. Open-source software (OSS) reuse en-
ables developers to integrate the functionalities faster, which
facilitates more efficient development and code maintenance.
Simultaneously, reusing OSS supports flexible development of
features because developers can either deploy OSS as TPLs
exactly or in a custom manner [46]. However, this convenience
also makes it more likely for developers to unintentionally in-
troduce vulnerabilities, known as 1-day vulnerabilities, through
TPL reuse [21] [43]. Such security issues are commonly
brought because 1) some TPLs may no longer be actively
maintained anymore, leaving their functionalities incomplete
or vulnerable to security risks, especially when vulnerabilities
are exploited; 2) the decentralized nature of OSSes makes it
difficult to keep track of all code changes made by contributors,
complicating the enforcement of security reviews and practices
when reusing the TPLs; 3) TPLs are not always developed by
following the best practices, which can make them more vul-
nerable. For instance, MOVEit Transfer, a file transfer project,
experienced a security breach due to SQL injection in June
2023, which puts all dependent software at risk of unauthorized
access; thus the dependent software is required to install the
patched version to safeguard their data promptly [35].
To explore 1-day vulnerabilities brought by TPL reuses,
some studies [26] [28] [48] only analyze the reuses without
any modifications (i.e. exact reuse) by employing similarity
comparison, which identifies whether the functions from TPLs
are invoked in the target program. Unfortunately, exact reuse
is only a small portion of TPL reuse because of its functional
restrictions during software development. The flexibility of
custom TPL reuse enhances functionality customization, yet
it simultaneously introduces challenges in recognizing TPL
reuse and detecting 1-day vulnerabilities caused by TPL reuse.
Although some existing tools, such as V1SCAN [46] and
MVP [51], claimed that they are capable of analyzing custom
TPL deployment, these tools can only handle simple custom
reuses with minor modifications, which leaves the problem far
away from being fully resolved. Making 1-day vulnerability
detection more complicated, developers may fix vulnerable
TPL functions in a custom way, rather than using official
updates or upgrading the entire TPLs [19].
To bridge the above gaps, we propose V ULTURE , a novel
vulnerability detection tool, to explore the potential 1-day vul-
Network and Distributed System Security (NDSS) Symposium 2025
24-28 February 2025, San Diego, CA, USA
ISBN 979-8-9894372-8-3
https://dx.doi.org/10.14722/ndss.2025.240576
www.ndss-symposium.org

===== PAGE 002 =====
nerabilities brought by TPL reuses effectively and efficiently.
As TPLs designed for different target platforms vary signif-
icantly [54], V ULTURE first conducts a mutually promoted
approach, TPLF ILTER , to heuristically refine existing OSSes
by selecting the TPLs appropriate for the specific target plat-
form(s). It constructs a multifaceted database that includes all
the vulnerable and patched TPLs through LLM-based commit
slicing. Instead of retaining all information (e.g., project code,
descriptions, fix commits) of each TPL, TPLFILTER condenses
each TPL version into several independent functions, and
then converts the functions into compact and numerical tuples
using the LSH algorithm [25]. According to the TPL database
generated by TPLF ILTER , V ULTURE employs a similarity-
based method to detect TPL reuse within the target program,
identifying both the reused TPLs and their versions.
Based on the database, V ULTURE undertakes a dual TPL
analysis to meticulously examine exact and custom code reuse.
In particular, V ULTURE first conducts version-based analysis
to explore exact TPL reuses by identifying the vulnerable TPL
versions from the target program. Then, it employs fine-grained
reformatting through code tokenization and chunk-based anal-
ysis to identify custom TPL reuse. To preserve semantic and
contextual information, V ULTURE generates each chunk by
conducting intra-procedural analysis to collect information
on variables (i.e., values, operations, and relative positions)
involved in code modifications during the transition from the
vulnerable code to the patched code. By comparing the chunks
with the target program, V ULTURE reports whether any 1-day
vulnerabilities exist and pinpoints their exact locations.
To assess the effectiveness of TPLF ILTER and V ULTURE ,
we created a benchmark by manually analyzing 68 real-
world projects, labeling 200 TPL reuses, and identifying 200
vulnerable reused functions from those reuses. By integrating
the database created by TPLF ILTER , V ULTURE successfully
identified 184 vulnerable reused functions, achieving an F1
@ 95.8% while the state-of-the-art tool, V1SCAN only de-
tected 100 vulnerable reused functions, achieving an F1 @
66.7%. V ULTURE not only outperforms the state-of-the-art
academic tool but also surpasses the commercial tool. We
applied VULTURE and a commercial detection tool SNYK [12]
to analyze TPL reuses within 10 real-world projects on a
large scale. V ULTURE outperformed SNYK by identifying 175
vulnerabilities from 178 TPL reuses, while SNYK identified
111 vulnerabilities and V1SCAN only identified 13. Our find-
ings indicate that custom adaptations of TPLs are widespread,
representing about 55% of all reuses. Additionally, the majority
of 1-day vulnerabilities were due to the reuse of outdated
TPLs, a problem often compounded by poor maintenance
and the lack of thorough fix guidance from public security
advisories.
Contribution:
• A novel approach to automatically build an extendable
database tailored for TPL analysis on a designated plat-
form.
We design a mutually promoted approach, TPLF ILTER ,
that integrates keyword searching with a LLM to explore
the commonly used TPLs, along with the associated
vulnerabilities and patch code. All vulnerabilities and
patch information are then gathered to create a TPL
vulnerability database.
• An effective 1-day vulnerability detection tool to discover
the reused TPLs and any potential vulnerabilities that
have been exploited. We design a 1-day vulnerability
detection tool, V ULTURE , that employs locality-sensitive
hashing (LSH) comparisons and a dual intra-procedural
analysis to exploit target programs semantically and
syntactically. It can distinguish the vulnerable TPLs by
recognizing both the official patches provided by TPL
owners and the custom patches created by developers.
• A comprehensive evaluation across TPLF ILTER and
VULTURE . We evaluate both TPLF ILTER and V ULTURE
by comparing them with state-of-the-art tools on real-
world projects. V ULTURE discovered 175 vulnerabilities
from 10 real-world IoT projects and provided 154 patch
commits.
Availability. The source code of V ULTURE
and the experiment datasets are available at
https://github.com/ShangzhiXu/VULTURE Detector.
