IV. V ULTURE
A. TPLF ILTER
To detect 1-day vulnerabilities introduced by TPL reuses,
VULTURE must 1) identify the reused TPLs in the target
program; 2) verify whether the reused TPL version is vulner-
able; 3) suggest if any potential patch is available. Therefore,
VULTURE is required to construct a database, containing the
TPLs commonly used by a platform and the corresponding
vulnerable and patch information as a detection reference.
1) TPL Selection: As TPLs vary across different plat-
forms, VULTURE executes TPLF ILTER to construct a database
containing TPLs specific to the targeted platform (e.g., IoT
firmware, Android, iOS). Since most open-source projects are
maintained and operated on GitHub, TPLF ILTER first collects
all prevalent libraries from GitHub or existing TPL databases,
such as OpenWRT [9] and Awesome Android [1]. To select
TPLs specific to the target platform, we manually created
a keyword list of the most commonly used keywords for
describing the target platforms. Through the keyword list,
TPLF ILTER performs keyword matching to determine if the
titles, tags, and descriptions of each collected TPL contain
any of the specified keywords. Additionally, TPLF ILTER
scans the project metadata, official websites of projects, and
README files to identify the keywords (e.g., system, server,
firmware) for non-library project exclusion. For each selected
TPL, TPLF ILTER clones them from GitHub and lists all the
published versions through git tag.
2) Component Segment Construction: Within the database,
TPLF ILTER gathers detailed information on each selected TPL
to construct the component segment. GitHub repositories and
official websites may provide a variety of information about the
TPL, including details about their functions, file names, license
information, and the creation time of each library (i.e., birth
time). However, we observed that file names are not unique
to every TPL and licenses are not formally organized by all
target programs, which may negatively affect the effectiveness
of TPL reuse detection. Alternatively, TPLF ILTER analyzes
functions declared in each TPL and their birth times to
build the database, For efficiency, rather than storing all the
complicated details of functions, TPLF ILTER calculates a hash
value for each function and stores them in the component
segment.
To minimize false alarms arising from string-matching in
the handling of custom patches, TPLF ILTER employs LSH to
process each function. LSH is a fuzzy hashing technique that
hashes similar input items into the same “buckets” with high
probability, thereby enhancing the accuracy of data compari-
son [25]. Hence, TPLF ILTER analyzes each TPL version and
extracts all functions with ctags. Then, it calculates the hash
value of each function.
Simultaneously, it executes git log to identify the birth
time of each function from the commit histories. Each function
is then represented as fc =< H, Birth >, where H is the
hash value of the function and Birth refers to its birth time.
Hence, each version of a TPL is comprised of the functions,
represented as FC = {fc(i)|1 ≤ i ≤ n}, where n is the
maximum number of functions included in the TPL version.
As a TPL A may invoke functions from another TPL B (i.e.,
A depends on B), such dependencies may lead to redundant
comparisons when analyzing function similarities.
Although some previous works (e.g., Centris [48] and
OSSFP [49]) also utilize LSH to calculate hash values, these
works identify redundant functions with hash value similar-
ity comparison rather than exact match identification. Such
schemes become inefficient when comparing functions on a
large scale. To eliminate redundant comparisons, TPLF IL-
TER employs a hashing-index based elimination method that
narrows down the scope by searching for functions with
identical hash values. Specifically, TPLF ILTER first identifies
the functions fc(i) and fc(j) by comparing hash values H(i)
and H(j). Among all the functions with the same hash values,
it selects the function with the earliest birth time and removes
the other functions.
3) Vulnerability Segment Construction: To support the de-
termination of whether the reused versions of TPLs contain
any vulnerabilities, TPLF ILTER collects all vulnerabilities
5

===== PAGE 006 =====
associated with each version of the TPLs in the component
segment. As some developers may patch vulnerabilities on
their own without updating TPL versions, TPLFILTER assesses
security patches, instead of TPL version, to identify whether
a vulnerability affects the target program. Hence, TPLF ILTER
collects security patches of each collected vulnerability, and
compiles these vulnerabilities and their respective security
patches in the vulnerability segment.
Vulnerability detail collection. As the majority of vulnera-
bility reports are typically listed on CVE and NVD, V ULTURE
crawls the vulnerability reports from these websites. Within
these reports, each vulnerability is assigned a unique CVE ID
for identification and is described using a CPE (Common Plat-
form Enumeration) to specify the software versions affected.
Given each TPL stored in the component segment, V UL-
TURE first filters the vulnerability reports whose descriptions
contain the TPL name at a coarse level by invoking the
NVD API with keywordSearch1 . Nonetheless, vulnerabil-
ity descriptions encompass not only the names of vulnerable
libraries but also the names of other software impacted by these
vulnerable libraries, rendering keyword searches less precise.
Therefore, VULTURE conducts a CPE-guided matching to filter
vulnerability reports for effective vulnerability identification.
Specifically, to determine whether a vulnerability affects a
target TPL, it retrieves the CPE information in the vulnera-
bility report and checks whether the target TPL name is the
substring of the CPE string. If the target TPL name is matched,
VULTURE regards that the vulnerability affects the target TPL
and records the corresponding information of the CVE ID,
its CPE, and the vulnerable TPL version(s). Typically, CPE
manages the vulnerable software versions in two ways: through
enumerations or version intervals. For enumeration, V ULTURE
directly extracts all vulnerable version numbers. In the case
of interval specification, V ULTURE first obtains and ranks all
versions of a TPL in ascending order, and then determines the
start and end versions that fall within the specific vulnerable
version interval.
Unfortunately, we inspected that some vulnerability reports
are informally written, thus these vulnerabilities might be over-
looked by keyword searches and CPE matching. To address
such issues, V ULTURE extracts additional vulnerability reports
from public databases including SNYK [12] and the official
websites of TPLs [7] [4] for further detail matching.
Security patch collection. VULTURE collects security patches
for each vulnerability to support accurate 1-day vulnerability
detection and examine whether a reused TPL in the target
programs has been patched. Although CVE/NVD includes patch
information for some vulnerabilities, a significant portion of
the patch information is not updated timely or maintained
properly [6], [36]. Alternatively, TPLs maintained on GitHub
frequently release security patches as GitHub commits, which
typically include descriptions of vulnerabilities as well as
detailed code changes.
To effectively and comprehensively obtain the vulnera-
bility patches, V ULTURE constructs an LLM-based multi-
sliced patch searching approach to locate the specific security
1https://services.nvd.nist.gov/rest/json/cves/2.0?keywordSearch={*}, where
element * refers to the name of the target TPL.
patches of each vulnerability. Given the CVE description main-
tained by CVE/NVD and the repository commits maintained by
GitHub of each TPL, V ULTURE proceeds with the following
four steps:
1) LLM-based description parsing: The vulnerability detail
provided by CVE/NVD typically consists of the vulnerability
description (e.g., vulnerability type, vulnerable files, vulnerable
functions, vulnerable variables, and some specific vulnerable
features), and CPE describing the affected TPL information
(e.g., vendor(s) of the TPL, TPL name and versions). Corre-
spondingly, VULTURE employs a LLM by invoking GPT3.5 to
parse the vulnerability description and then extracts the vul-
nerable elements affected by the vulnerability, i.e., vulnerable
files, vulnerable functions, and vulnerable variables.
2) Slice-based commit filtering: As a vulnerable TPL repos-
itory may contain numerous commits that cover document
changes, routine common bug fixes, feature modifications, and
vulnerability patches, it is time-consuming and error-prone
to analyze those commits one by one. Therefore, V ULTURE
conducts a date-specific commit slicing to exclude the commits
confirmed to be irrelevant to the vulnerabilities at a coarse-
grained level. Specifically, V ULTURE first identifies all the
vulnerable versions from the vulnerability description and CPE
information. Since the version released immediately after the
last vulnerable version is typically the first patched version
of a vulnerability, V ULTURE extracts the timestamps of when
the last vulnerable version and the first patched version were
published. Correspondingly, all the commits generated within
the time range between these two timestamps are considered
as potential patch commits. Then, it divides the potential patch
commits into multiple slices based on average partitioning
(i.e., each slice contains k commits. Within each slice i,
VULTURE calculates a code diff diffi between the first and the
last commits. If diffi contains any of the vulnerable elements,
VULTURE labels the slice i as a candidate slice, indicating that
at least one commit within this slice contains modifications
related to vulnerability-specific code elements. Otherwise, it
continues analyzing the next slice i + 1.
3) Candidate commit selection: After locating the candidate
slice, V ULTURE performs fine-grained analysis to select the
candidate commits that are related to the vulnerability. It
compares vulnerable code with each patch to generate a code
diff. If the code diff includes any of the vulnerable elements,
VULTURE labels the commit as a candidate commit and
advances to step (4) for further confirmation.
4) LLM-based patch commit mapping: VULTURE employs
LLM to confirm the patch commits. On one hand, some
commits within the candidate commits may also modify the
vulnerable elements yet are not the patch regarding the target
vulnerability, requiring V ULTURE to exclude these commits;
on the other hand, some CPE information provided by NVD
is incorrect [24] which may lead to false alarms. To address
the challenges, V ULTURE takes as input the CVE description
and each candidate commit (i.e., commit description and the
modified code), and invokes GPT4.0 to infer whether the CVE
and the commit are relevant. It is important to note that only
minor candidate commits are needed to be analyzed here, thus
GPT4.0 incurs minimal costs to calculate the correlations.
A detailed example of patch commit mapping is illustrated
6

===== PAGE 007 =====
in Appendix A.
B. TPL Reuse Identification
To determine what TPLs are reused in each target pro-
gram, V ULTURE takes as input the component segment of
the database to check whether these TPLs are invoked. It first
employs an LSH algorithm to generate a list of TPL candidates
that the target program may use. Subsequently, it refines the
identification process by incorporating additional information
for further confirmation.
1) Candidate Library Detection: As TPLs may be reused
either exactly or in a custom manner, relying solely on match-
ing function names and code statements may overlook such
custom cases. Hence, V ULTURE leverages the LSH algorithm
to conduct code similarity analysis.
Specifically, V ULTURE first extracts all files along with
their paths from the target program and then proceeds with
these files one by one. Then, VULTURE divides each file within
the target program into target function snippets based on the
declared functions. Given each function snippet, it uses Python
TLSH, an LSH-based fuzzy matching library, to generate a
unique hash value, Each target function snippet i can be rep-
resented by a 2-tuple: ft(i) =< Hash(i), Func path(i) >,
where Hash is the hash value of the target function snippet
i and Func path represents the file path where the function
snippet i is defined. V ULTURE then computes the similarity
between the target function snippets and TPL functions in
the component segment. For each target function snippet i,
VULTURE compares it with each function j from the TPL
iteratively. In particular, it takes as input Hash(i) and H(j)
and leverages TLSH to calculate a similarity score between
functions i and j. If the similarity score falls below a hash
threshold THhash, the function pair of i and j is consid-
ered similar. After all target function snippets are analyzed,
VULTURE calculates the total number of similar function
pairs. When the total number exceeds a similarity threshold
THsim, it represents that the corresponding TPL may be
used. Since different versions of a TPL may vary significantly,
VULTURE identifies the version with the highest number of
similar function pairs as a TPL prevalent version and then
captures the information of the TPL (i.e., TPL name, hash
value of the function in the TPL, TPL version, and the file path
where the TPL is reused in the target program) to store in the
candidate TPL list. It is important to note that when multiple
TPL versions have the same number of similar function pairs,
VULTURE randomly selects one version as the TPL prevalent
version. V ULTURE iteratively analyzes all functions in the
target program and collects a list of candidate TPLs that are
potentially reused.
2) Identification Optimization: The common similarity-
based approaches, such as Centris, may produce a signifi-
cant number of false positives because 1) TPLs with similar
functionalities may employ the same functions; 2) the inter-
dependencies among TPLs may result in a high degree of
function overlap between TPLs. To accurately select which
TPL is reused, V ULTURE leverages auxiliary information, i.e.,
file paths and birth time, to optimize the candidate list.
Some existing approaches (e.g., SNYK [12]) use TPL
licenses to identify reuses because the target program must
declare a TPL license either in a LICENSE file or through
an annotation when reusing. However, we observed that these
TPL licenses are usually written inconsistently and informally,
without adhering to standards. V ULTURE may overlook the
declared TPLs when using such information. Hence, VULTURE
examines file paths illustrating where TPLs are reused in the
target program and the birth time of each TPL as the indicators.
Generally, the target program places code that reuses TPLs
under a separate directory and then names the directory with
a title similar to the TPL name. The birth time is used to
pinpoint the first invocation of the reused function, thereby
eliminating the redundant TPL dependencies involved during
function comparison.
To confirm the reused TPLs, V ULTURE first groups TPL
candidates together when they share the same file path in the
target program. For the TPL candidates in the same group,
a path tokenizer is used to divide each file path into tokens
based on the separators (e.g., space, backslash, and colon).
Then V ULTURE compares each token with the name of each
TPL candidate and calculates a Jaccard similarity score [34],
and selects the TPL candidate(s) with the highest Jaccard
similarity score as the confirmed reused TPL. Note that a
file may invoke functions from multiple TPLs, thus several
TPLs can have the same Jaccard similarity score. V ULTURE
further addresses the inheritance cases where several TPLs
share the same score to locate the confirmed reused TPL. First,
VULTURE gathers the remaining TPL candidates sharing the
same hash value H into a group, indicating that these TPLs
are related. Within each group, V ULTURE compares the birth
time of each TPL and identifies the one with the earliest birth
time as the parent TPL of the group (i.e., the confirmed TPL of
the target program). All the remaining TPL candidates in the
group are then removed. For each target program, V ULTURE
eventually generates a TPL reuse report containing all the
confirmed reused TPLs.
C. 1-day Vulnerability Detection
When the TPL reuse report discloses that a vulnerable
version of TPL has been reused, V ULTURE then determines
whether any vulnerable functions are being invoked exactly
or in a custom way. Hence, V ULTURE implements a dual
analysis strategy at the function level, utilizing version-based
and chunk-based analyses to distinguish exact and custom
reuses, respectively.
1) Version-based analysis: By inspecting the reused TPLs,
we found that some developers may reuse a vulnerable TPL
version, but patch the vulnerable code snippets themselves.
Therefore, V ULTURE utilizes a diff-inspired version-based
analysis to examine a TPL reuse from three aspects: 1) whether
reuse is exact or customized in terms of TPL reuses; 2) whether
the reused TPL version is vulnerable; and 3) whether the
exploited vulnerabilities are patched.
In detail, VULTURE first takes the TPL reuse report as input
to extract the reused TPL and its version. According to the
TPL name and the version, it queries the vulnerability segment
of the database to verify if the reused version of the TPL
was linked to any CVE report. If a CVE report is identified,
VULTURE extracts the vulnerable and patched version of the
code related to the CVE, and then utilizes diff to locate the
7

===== PAGE 008 =====
code diff Diffvp. Subsequently, V ULTURE analyzes the Diffvp
to determine if the modified items in Diffvp are functions
or global declarations (e.g., global variables, structures, and
macros). For functions, V ULTURE extracts and records the
entire function of both the vulnerable and patched code as
the vulnerable and patched functions, respectively; while for
global declarations, V ULTURE records them as the vulnera-
ble and patched global declarations. Then, within the target
program, leveraging ctags, V ULTURE specifically labels each
code snippet as either a function or a global declaration and
compares them with vulnerable/patched functions/declarations,
respectively.
As a result, V ULTURE distinguishes TPL reuses in the
target program into four groups and processes each group with
function-level granularity, ensuring that unused functions in the
TPLs do not affect the detection accuracy:
G1: No vulnerable reuse. It indicates a target program
reuses the vulnerable version of a TPL without involving any
vulnerable functions or vulnerable global declaration.
• Analysis: When all the target code snippets are exactly
equal to the patched function or the patched global
declaration, V ULTURE regards the target program as G1.
The target programs in this group are considered secure.
G2: Vulnerable global declaration reuse. It represents that
a target program only reuses vulnerable global declarations.
• Analysis: When any of the global declarations in a target
code snippet exactly equals to that of the vulnerable
global declarations, V ULTURE regards the target program
as G2.
• Confirmation: VULTURE employs line matching to iden-
tify the vulnerable declarations. If a global declaration
that is deleted from the vulnerable TPL continues to
appear in the target code snippet, V ULTURE considers
that a vulnerability is identified. Furthermore, when a
global declaration added to the patched TPL does not
appear in the target code snippet, V ULTURE considers
the target program as vulnerable. A 1-day vulnerability is
then identified.
G3: Exact vulnerable reuse : It represents that a target pro-
gram exactly reuses the vulnerable function of a TPL without
providing any patches.
• Analysis: VULTURE labels the target program as G3 if
any target functions are equal to the vulnerable functions.
• Confirmation: VULTURE utilizes TLSH to compute the
hash values of the vulnerable function and the target
function snippet. If any function in the target program
shares the same hash value as the vulnerable function,
VULTURE considers it unpatched and classified to G3. A
1-day vulnerability is then identified.
G4: Custom reuse: It represents that a target program reuses
the vulnerable or patched functions with custom modifications.
• Analysis: VULTURE labels the target program as G4
if any target functions are similar to the vulnerable or
patched functions. If the similarity score for any pair of
functions exceeds THsim, V ULTURE classifies the target
program as G4.
• Confirmation: VULTURE uses TLSH to compare the hash
values of each function in the target program with those
of the vulnerable function. Since it involves custom reuse,
it is uncertain whether the target program is secure; thus,
VULTURE confirms the vulnerable custom reuses via a
chunk-based analysis.
2) Chunk-based analysis: To preserve the semantic and
syntactic information that is overlooked by function [28] and
line matching [46], static analysis has traditionally been used,
but it comes with significant challenges. First, static analy-
sis requires compilable code, which is problematic because
patches are often provided as isolated snippets that cannot
be compiled directly. Second, static analysis demands an
extensive environment setup for compilation, which is both
time-consuming and resource-intensive.
To resolve the issues brought by the traditional static
analysis, V ULTURE utilizes chunk-based code analysis to
examine custom reused functions, striking a balance between
efficiency and accuracy in semantic information extraction
without the reliance on compilation. For these customized
functions, V ULTURE verifies whether these custom modifica-
tions provide the same security functionality as those in the
official patches released by TPL contributors. Specifically, for
chunk-based analysis, a chunk represents a group of modified
lines focused on a specific functionality. In a given function,
the lines within the same chunk are either governed by the
same control structures (e.g., if-else, while, for) or
operate on the same set of variables. A chunk preserves both
the semantic meaning and contextual relationships embedded
within the patch code, ensuring an accurate assessment of
custom adaptations.
Taking as input the information of CVE ID, vulnerable
code snippets, patched code snippets, Diffvp, and target code
snippets, V ULTURE proceeds with the following steps:
Chunk construction. When reusing TPLs, the target program
might alter the format of the reused code. Thus, VULTURE first
standardizes all code snippets, including target code snippets,
vulnerable code, and the patched code. According to the LLVM
coding standard2, VULTURE removes unnecessary entities such
as leading spaces, comments, and constant strings.
After normalization, V ULTURE separately initiates code
diff among the target, vulnerable, and patched code snippets.
The comparison correspondingly yields three code diff (i.e.,
Diffvt, Diffpt, and Diffvp), where Diffvt is the code diff between
the target and vulnerable code snippets, Diffpt is the code diff
between the target and patched code snippets, and Diffvp is the
code diff between the vulnerable and patched code snippets.
Each line in the above code diff is treated as an individual
chunk. We manually predefined 40 regular expressions, cov-
ering all types of statements (e.g., call expressions, binary
operations). Using these regular expressions, V ULTURE then
extracts the variables and operations involved in each chunk.
It further adopts a disjoint-set union algorithm to identify the
data-dependent chunks when 1) the chunks are part of the
same control block without any nested control structures, or 2)
chunks share the same variable. Eventually, all related chunks
2LLVM Coding Standard: https://llvm.org/docs/CodingStandards.html
8

===== PAGE 009 =====
are merged, while those unmerged chunks remain independent
from each other.
Vulnerability detection. After constructing the chunks, V UL-
TURE uses chunk matching to determine if variables in the
target code snippet have been patched. Initially, VULTURE con-
ducts disjoint checking by pairwisely comparing each chunk
in Diffvt and Diffpt with the chunks from Diffvp to determine
whether the patches have been applied to the target program.
If both sets of Diffvt and Diffpt share the same variables
with Diffvp, V ULTURE further performs line matching. A
vulnerability is considered “patched” if all lines in Diffvp
appear in Diffvt, but disappear in Diffpt. Otherwise, V ULTURE
further executes operation match. When all operations in Diffvp
appear in Diffvt, but disappear in Diffpt, it indicates that the
vulnerability has been patched via customized modifications.
If both matching conditions are failed, a 1-day vulnerability is
considered to be “found”.
A detailed example for chunk-based detection is depicted
in Figure 4. The code snippet A at the top represents the
patch code, while code snippet B at the bottom shows the
customized patch. To construct chunks, V ULTURE initially
treats each added line in the patch and reused code as an
individual chunk. Next, V ULTURE merges these chunks based
on semantic relationships and context. For instance, in the
patch code snippet A, the first four lines are merged into a
single chunk because they share the same variable, cmaplen.
Similarly, the last two lines are incorporated into another chunk
as the same control block governs them.
After constructing the chunks, V ULTURE starts to process
chunk matching. In the above example, chunk C pairs with
chunk E, and chunk D pairs with chunk F. Code B is classified
as patched, since the line match was unsuccessful (indicated
by the highlighted lines on the left side), the operation match
succeeded (indicated by the highlighted lines on the right side).
This scenario of custom patch may lead to false positives
in other systems like V1SCAN, but V ULTURE can accurately
identify the patch.
A
B
C
D
METHODDEF(JDIMENSION) get_8bit_row(...){
    
  +   int cmaplen;
    ...
  +  cmaplen = source->cmap_length;
    ...
  + if (t >= cmaplen)
  +   return 1;
    output++ = colormap[0][t];
    ...
  + if (getUsed(bitClrUsed))
  +     return 1;
    ...
}
METHODDEF(JDIMENSION) get_8bit_row(...){
    
  +   int cmaplen = source->cmap_length;
    ...
  + if (t >= cmaplen)
  +    return 1;
    output++ = colormap[0][t];
    ...
  + if (getUsed(bitClrUsed))
  +    return 1;
    ...
}
Line numbers [5 ， 6] 
Variable [bitClrUsed]
Operation [
 bitClrUsed: {callexpr, arg0}    
]
Line numbers [1,2,3,4] 
Variable [cmaplen, source->cmap_length]
Operation [
 cmaplen: {assign;left; 
   source->cmap_length}
          { >=; right; t}
 source->cmap_length ：
          {assign; right;cmaplen}
]
F
REUSE
Line numbers [5 ， 6] 
Variable [bitClrUsed]
Operation [
 bitClrUsed: {callexpr, arg0}    
]
Line numbers [1,2,3,4] 
Variable [cmaplen, source->cmap_length]
Operation [
 cmaplen: {assign;left; 
   source->cmap_length}
          { >=; right; t}
 source->cmap_length ：
          {assign; right;cmaplen}
]
E
Fig. 4: Chunk extraction and match
After processing all potential vulnerabilities for the tar-
get program through version-based and chunk-based analysis,
VULTURE will generate a comprehensive vulnerability report.
This report not only includes the CVE-ID of the vulnerability
but also provides the patch commit URL from our vulnerability
segment of the database, along with details of the chunks
involved in the detection process, to facilitate further patching
on 1-day vulnerabilities by developers.
