references on which we build a detailed, explicit model of
countermeasures.
B. Cybersecurity Threat Frameworks
The National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)
created and updates the Cybersecurity Framework, which
provides security guidance for organizations to align their
cybersecurity activities to manage their cybersecurity risk
around an Identify-Protect-Detect-Respond-Recover paradigm
[10]. This paradigm is broader than the kill-chain models we
discuss next, but it is focused on activity and organization
rather than engineering or technology. NIST also maintains
the National Vulnerability Database, the U.S. government
repository of standards-based vulnerability management data
for security controls enumerated in NIST 800-53 [11]. NIST
maps these relevant security controls to the activities deﬁned
in the Cybersecurity Framework.
Kill-chain oriented and derived threat models have proved
popular and effective. New models like D3FEND must relate
to these to ensure rapid uptake by the cyber community and
easy integration with existing resources. The U.S. Department
of Defense Cyber Analysis and Review and U.S. Department
of Homeland Security Cybersecurity Architecture Review
(.govCAR) frameworks serve as threat-based tools for high-
level characterization of cyber threats and mitigations, and a
means to identify gaps in cyber portfolios and architectures
[12]. The Ofﬁce of the Director of National Intelligence has
created the Cyber Threat Framework to serve as a shared
lexicon to characterize and categorize cyber threat events
[13]. The National Security Agency’s Technical Cyber Threat
Framework added extensive technical detail [14]. MITRE’s
ATT&CK has inﬂuenced and been inﬂuenced by these frame-
works.
C. ATT&CK
In “Finding Cyber Threats with ATT&CK-Based Analyt-
ics,” MITRE created an analytic development methodology
focused on detecting post-compromise adversary behaviors
[15]. This revolutionized the language security practitioners
use to discuss their work. Vendors began to describe what
speciﬁc adversary behaviors their products were able to detect,
prevent, or monitor. ATT&CK primarily modeled adversary
behavior via offensive techniques organized by the tactical
objectives they support. ATT&CK has since amassed an online
knowledge base of threat actor techniques [17].
ATT&CK™ knowledge (also encoded via STIX) is an
especially critical counterpart to D3FEND. D3FEND focuses
on countermeasures. The two can be related as explained in
section IV-E.
The Cyber Analytics Repository (CAR) was a key product
of MITRE’s ATT&CK work. CAR identiﬁes objects related
to key operating system and processing events [18] with its
CAR Data Model, it also catalogs MITRE developed analytics
and maps them to speciﬁc ATT&CK techniques they were
designed to detect. The initial D3FEND release incorporates
the CAR analytics developed, but whereas CAR modeled data
from endpoint telemetry software and the associated analytics
from a Security Operations Center Operator’s perspective,
D3FEND models the countermeasure space from a hard-
ware or software engineer’s perspective. Therefore, D3FEND’s
scope is limited only by the scope of the cybersecurity
technology space.
D. Commercial Product Taxonomies
Commercial product taxonomies tend to organize by form-
factor or intended buyer rather than function. This is useful
for understanding which vendors might be relevant but does
not explain in enough detail how the products work or what
they do. However, there are implicit sets of features or func-
tions that each grouping represents. Cybersecurity marketing
vocabulary changes at such a pace that analyst ﬁrms produce
new taxonomies each year despite only modest changes in the
underlying technical functionality [19].
Patent systems also provide taxonomies of technological
innovation and assign one or more of these codes to individ-
ual patents. The International Patent Classiﬁcation system of
70,000 codes, and its extension, the Cooperative Patent Clas-
siﬁcation system, are used to curate patents and are managed
by the European and U.S. patent ofﬁces. In the cybersecurity

===== Page 003 =====
domain, the categories are often broad and only taxonomical;
they do not describe key attributes of the technologies detailed
in the patents.
E. Formal Modeling of Cybersecurity Domain Knowledge
There have been many efforts to model the cybersecurity
domain formally and create knowledge representations for ex-
change and shared understanding. In 2007, Herzog, Shamehri,
and Duma created a detailed model of information security,
including threat, asset, and countermeasure classes and rela-
tionships among them [20]. Fenz, Pruckner, and Manutscheri
built on this by creating guidelines for mapping information
security knowledge from one standard to a more formal secu-
rity model [21]. Wang and Guo created a formal knowledge
model to capture key relationships between vulnerabilities,
products, countermeasures, and actors—incorporating CVE,
the Common Vulnerability Scoring System, CWE, CPE, and
CAPEC—to describe patterns of threats and vulnerability
management to make inferences and assist users in decision
making [22].
In 2012, MITRE reported on a trade study performed
with the goal of creating a general cyber knowledge model
and method for extending its core over a series of iterative
improvements [23]. This team focused their initial work on
building a model from the MAEC language and prior malware
conceptual models of Swimmer, which were developed for the
purpose of data exchange between security software products.
From this, Obrst et al provide a vision for a much broader
cyber knowledge architecture and provide a useful survey
of cyber-related knowledge representations and standards to
contextualize their work and the architecture.
Oltramari et al. created a basic architecture with the key
elements and interactions to support situational awareness
in the cybersecurity domain and then provided a modeling
example using their approach [24]. Salem et al. created the
TAPIO tool, which extracts operational data and integrates data
from numerous sources into a knowledge graph and enables
real-time exploration of the causes and effects of cyber events
[25].
Syed et al. created the Uniﬁed Cybersecurity Ontology
(UCO) model by integrating several existing knowledge
schemas and standards into a common model for the cyber-
security domain; like Oltramari et al, their model supports
cyber situational-awareness scenarios [26]. In 2019, the Cyber-
investigation Analysis Standard Expression (CASE) commu-
nity was formed to coordinate a community-developed spec-
iﬁcation language to “serve the broadest range of interests in
cyber-investigation domains including: digital forensic science,
incident response, counter-terrorism, criminal justice, forensic
intelligence, and situational awareness.” CASE aligns with and
extends the UCO.
F . Successes Using Knowledge Graphs and Linked Data
Recent advances in knowledge modeling and linked data
technology have enabled its adoption in several domains. The
technology has proven fundamental to the medical, biological
sciences, and bioinformatics communities in cataloging and
deeply understanding complex patterns in medical datasets
and genomes. Scientists can now rapidly share knowledge
and collaborate on complex chemical and protein interactions.
The Uniﬁed Medical Language System [27] has integrated
213 medical vocabularies [28]. Bioinformatics researchers
can leverage and tie together knowledge contained in The
European Molecular Biology Laboratory and European Bioin-
formatics Institute’s open data resources and The Universal
Protein Resource, which contains protein sequence and anno-
tation data.
The Schema.org vocabulary [29] is an open data community
founded by Google, Microsoft, Yahoo, and Yandex. The
schema has been developed through a community process.
Schema.org builds on semantic web concepts and facilitates
data exchanges and a shared understanding between sites
choosing to share structured social data and aggregators of that
social data. Google uses schema.org types for its Knowledge
Graph Search API [30]. Thomson Reuters is investing in this
technology as well, creating and spinning off a knowledge
graph group for ﬁnancial data [31] and news content.
Immediately relevant to the D3FEND knowledge graph and
