methodology are pre-existing open linked data resources. We
see opportunities to rapidly integrate pertinent open linked data
readily available, including patent data (and patent coding sys-
tems), authors, researchers, inventors, and organizations. We
believe D3FEND may be enhanced by using and referencing
these open linked datasets with standards-based linked data
technologies.
III. M ETHODOLOGY
A. Frameworks, Models, and Knowledge Graphs
There are three key information organization approaches we
use to create D3FEND. A conceptual framework which “ex-
plains, either graphically or in narrative form, the main things
to be studied—the key factors, constructs, or variables—and
the presumed relationships among them” [32]. A domain
knowledge model which “is used to reduce conceptual and
terminological confusion” and foster communication, reusabil-
ity, and cooperation [33]. Finally, a knowledge graph which
provides a ﬂexible representation of knowledge and enables
complex machine reasoning about the domain.
To support the recurring need for effective and clear coun-
termeasure capability speciﬁcations, we aspire to (1) provide a
conceptual framework that incorporates a domain knowledge
model of the cyber countermeasure domain, (2) populate the
framework and model to complete a knowledge graph, and (3)
relate countermeasures to the ATT&CK framework’s offensive
counterparts and to the larger domain space of structured cyber
knowledge.
D3FEND models core countermeasure functionality and the
knowledge relationships necessary to effectively understand
and contextualize that functionality. Countermeasure technolo-
gies perform many functions with their software or hardware
components. Some functions directly counter adversary behav-
ior. Others are more administrative in nature and supportive

===== Page 004 =====
Fig. 1. Cybersecurity Patent Applications 2001-2018
of the core countermeasure functionality and are not the focus
of D3FEND.
D3FEND is primarily concerned with abstract and generic
semantics versus vendor speciﬁc terminology or technical jar-
gon. However, analysis of technical jargon is usually required
to select effective semantics—and in some cases create or
deﬁne useful new semantics. For example, for D3FEND we
ﬁrst included an abstract deﬁnition of a Kernel instead of
the Microsoft terminology: “Windows Kernel” or “Windows
NT Kernel”, thereby enabling our Kernel concept to apply to
the “Linux Kernel” as well. When needed, D3FEND users
will be able to extend this with more speciﬁc deﬁnitions of
kernel types by subclassing speciﬁc OS kernels and also by
compositions of their parts (e.g, ”Kernel Module” elements).
B. Data Sources
The data used to build D3FEND underpins our new ap-
proach to systematically understanding cybersecurity counter-
measures. The research team developed the model directly
from the research claims in the literature in a bottom-up
fashion, linking each countermeasure through speciﬁc citations
to the literature and integrating those into higher-level abstrac-
tions. We discuss patents, existing knowledge bases, and other
data sources.
1) Patents: Inventors ﬁle thousands of patent applications
each year for technologies and methods for defensive cyber-
security techniques. We downloaded all U.S. Patent Ofﬁce
ﬁlings from 2001 to January 2019. A key phrase search
against this corpus 1 shows an ever-increasing publishing rate
on cybersecurity patents in Figure 1.
The patent corpus was our initial focus for multiple rea-
sons. There is strong motivation for inventors, investors, and
organizations to describe and distinguish how their cyberse-
curity technologies work in patents. This due to the various
protections patents provide for intellectual property owners. It
is also a highly curated corpus with category codes, citations,
and an ofﬁcial legally-authoritative assessment of the novelty
of their claims. In our experience, vendor white papers and
1Apache Solr search terms: ”information assurance” ”cyber security” ”cy-
bersecurity” ”infosec” ”information security” ”network security” ”computer
security” ”computer network defense” ”network defense” ”malware” ”com-
puter hacking” ”computer virus” ”data exﬁltration” ”cyber warfare” ”infor-
mation warfare” ”intrusion detection” ”intrusion prevention” ”indicators of
compromise” ”security information events” ”cryptographic” ”cryptography”
Fig. 2. Example Intellectual Property Development Network
marketing material do not sufﬁciently explain how the tech-
nologies work at an engineering level, nor do they do so in
as uniform a manner as patents. To date, there appears to be
no comprehensive public analysis of the cybersecurity patent
corpus for the purpose of developing a knowledge graph of
cyber countermeasures.
This corpus, while useful, has numerous issues that need to
be understood when using it for our purpose. In some cases,
the corpus is adversarial. For example, in academic papers,
the citations tend to have high ﬁdelity because researchers
are incentivized to accurately represent prior scientiﬁc knowl-
edge. Patents also have citations and prior art enumerations.
However, these are often selected to bolster the case that the
new patent is truly novel, useful, and non-obvious for business
purposes. This is done without the peer review process used
in academia.
Forty percent of U.S. patented inventions are not used.
About half of these are patents meant to block competitors or
to be used as bargaining chips in inter-ﬁrm negotiations [36].
Our study catalogs all cyber-defense approaches, whether yet
practiced or not; use of the D3FEND knowledge graph may
identify an unpracticed approach and encourage innovation
and productization in that category. Furthermore, because our
survey focuses on recent inventions in an emergent ﬁeld, the
“not used” distinction is ephemeral in many instances.
2) Existing Knowledge Bases: We analyzed the MITRE
Cyber Analytic Repository [34] and mapped its analytics to the
alpha version of D3FEND. The repository primarily contains
detection analytics that consume endpoint telemetry. We also
analyzed the ATT&CK knowledge base and developed a way
to relate it to D3FEND, as discussed in Section IV-E.
3) Other Data Sources: We have also analyzed other data
sources. Some of these sources include academic papers, tech-
nical speciﬁcations, and publicly available product technical
documentation.
4) Key Findings: After reviewing these data sources, we
determined that these available intellectual property documents
could serve as the foundation for a cybersecurity countermea-
sure knowledge graph. We also were hopeful the resulting
knowledge graph would be coherent and useful to cybersecu-
rity architects. The D3FEND knowledge graph was built from
the patent corpus primarily due to its scope, speciﬁcity, and

===== Page 005 =====
availability. These data sources are published or made public
in various formats and venues. The cybersecurity community
has a diverse group of participants ranging from technicians
to academics. Intellectual property is developed by the whole
spectrum of participants. Example data sources are depicted
in Figure 2. The ﬁgure also illustrates the intellectual property
development network which produces cybersecurity counter-
measure technology. We also determined these datasets are
too large to analyze entirely manually. However, we started
with a manual analysis process so that we can better develop
automated means.
C. Countermeasure Analysis Process
Our initial approach included some preliminary efforts
to use natural language processing techniques to organize,
summarize, and classify the technologies claimed in the docu-
ments, primarily U.S. patent applications. We experimented
with unsupervised topic modeling and text summarization
algorithms. We determined these preliminary methods were
not sufﬁcient to create a semantic representation that would be
useful to cybersecurity practitioners at the outset. Supervised
and semi-supervised machine-learning approaches were not
tried, as we did not yet have a countermeasure or artifact
classiﬁcation system or a set of ﬁxed terms and thus were
unable to provide labeled training data.
Our early efforts to use existing high-level models and work
top down to speciﬁc countermeasures, or to propose our own
high-level models absent the enumeration of countermeasure
instances, did not prove to be an effective approach to create
the desired framework of concepts and vocabulary. Our ex-
perience is that without anchoring the framework to speciﬁc
instances from the outset, establishing team consensus for the
vocabulary was difﬁcult and was considered too subjective
and too biased toward individual contributor’s experience and
