background. Given this experience, we focused on describing
speciﬁc technologies and built up a hierarchy of semantic
abstractions which are directly linked to the original references
to enhance the ﬁdelity of the knowledge graph.
With a mindset towards automation, we began to manually
analyze, summarize, and formulate semantics that describe
the defensive techniques contained in the intellectual property
documents. We then recorded the analyses in our database,
creating a new labeled dataset. This resulted in a database with
a vocabulary of countermeasure techniques, and references
to source documents where the concepts are described. This
process relied on our subject matter expertise and was labor
intensive but necessary to develop an initial semantic model
of the countermeasure space. In addition, we plan to use these
analyses to research training algorithms to both reﬁne the
initial model and expedite the development and recognition
of new countermeasure techniques.
The team reviewed over 500 cybersecurity patents selected
based on multiple criteria, and analyzed those with substantial
technical detail. We initially focused on “detection” oriented
vendors because the team had familiarity with the domain. We
chose vendors from IDC’s Worldwide Cybersecurity Products
Taxonomy, 2019 [19] and analyzed their patents. Some of
these technologies do more than just detect unauthorized
activity. We incorporated these additional techniques and cat-
egorized them in the D3FEND knowledge graph.
We approached the problem with a focus on countermeasure
activity. We drew on two related systems engineering ap-
proaches to describing and understanding system activity: ac-
tivity models [38] [39] and uses cases [40]. These approaches
helped us frame two related sets of questions to capture the
key aspects of the intellectual property when examining it in
terms of being a defensive technique. The ﬁrst set aimed to
capture the core functional activity, and a second set captured
key user interaction aspects. Both sets are shown in Table I.
Given the volume of cybersecurity data and potential demands
for users to stay in or on the decision loops (i.e., monitor
and handle system alerts), we placed a particular emphasis on
scaling concerns, both in implementing the basic capability
and consequent user interactions.
TABLE I
TECHNIQUE ELICITATION QUESTIONS
How does the technology work? Activity model element
What are the data inputs? Activity Input
What are the data outputs? Activity Output
When does the analysis occur? Activity Control
What are the analytical algorithms? Activity Mechanism
How does it work at scale? Activity Mechanism
How can it be circumvented? Activity Mechanism
How do humans interact with the tech-
nology?
Activity model element
What must the human user do? User Responsibilities
How does this interaction scale? User-System Relationship
The team quickly realized that this was too time consuming,
and in many cases it was not possible to answer every question
for each intellectual property document. Additionally, many
technologies solved multiple problems, i.e., they contained
multiple D3FEND techniques. We then improved our process
with a new approach.
We noticed that data input types to the technologies were
a key factor in understanding how the technology works and
anchoring them to defensive techniques. Prior work by MITRE
focused analytic development around an object enumeration,
though the scope of the enumeration was focused on process
objects rather than the entire countermeasure space [18]. This
led us to create the D3FEND Digital Artifact Ontology to
deﬁne these data input types with a higher degree of speciﬁcity.
This concept is further discussed in section IV-E.
The knowledge and facts extracted during these analyses are
recorded in the D3FEND knowledge graph; where possible
we answered some of these initial questions for particular
technologies or D3FEND techniques. The current knowledge
graph is alpha level; we are adding features and information
necessary to be useful to a public audience. Our road-map
section explains our plan for developing a feature–complete
beta release.

===== Page 006 =====
Fig. 3. D3FEND Knowledge Graph User Interface: Tactics and Techniques Overview
IV. T HE D3FEND M ODEL
With our methodology we analyzed how defensive cyber-
security technologies work. Semantic patterns and structure
began to emerge once a critical mass of technologies had been
analyzed. We then organized and reﬁned this structure as our
knowledge increased. “D3FEND” refers to all of D3FEND’s
components: the knowledge graph, knowledge graph user
interface, and the knowledge model.
A. Structural Overview
The D3FEND knowledge graph user interface, Figure 3,
renders defensive tactics and techniques in a tabular view
that also accounts for hierarchy. This view of the model is
represented as a directed, acyclic graph. Each element links
to more detailed information. The D3FEND knowledge model
has a few key top-level concepts, shown in Figure 4. The hi-
erarchy of classes is shown as gold arrows, while fundamental
relationships between these core concepts are depicted as blue
lines. This core is used to arrange the instances of concepts and
organize the relational assertions that make up the D3FEND
knowledge graph.
The D3FEND knowledge graph, currently being developed,
is a particular type of knowledge base. It connects the concep-
Fig. 4. D3FEND Core Knowledge Model
tual model (i.e. knowledge model) to the particular facts. It is
a graph structure that represents instances, their relationships,
and their types.

===== Page 007 =====
Fig. 5. Code (text) Segments and Process Memory Layout [37]
B. D3FEND Technique Semantics
A D3FEND technique is the central and most important
concept in the D3FEND knowledge model. They are curated
by D3FEND technique researchers. Cybersecurity technolo-
gies can be complex and may comprise multiple D3FEND
techniques. Semantically, a D3FEND technique is represented
as a concise phrase that captures signiﬁcant information. This
is difﬁcult to do because it is a high-dimensional optimization
