problem in very different ways. These technologies were
developed over two decades and deployed in radically dif-
ferent form-factors ranging from endpoint software agents to
software compiler technologies. Additionally, their analytical
approaches to veriﬁcation were different. It was apparent
there may be advantages and disadvantages to the different
approaches. Despite the signiﬁcant differences, these technolo-
gies were designed to solve the same problem: verify that the
code segments (also known as text segments—Figure 5) within
a running process were as expected.
To accurately make claims that a product implements a
given technique, we must understand the technique’s seman-
tics. We deﬁne the term process code segment to mean the
portions of memory assigned to a running process that contain
machine code for execution. These code segments are usually
loaded from disk when the application is executed to launch
the process. By specifying process code segment we explain
that this technique is not concerned with the application image
on disk but its state once it is loaded into the memory of a
launched process. Veriﬁcation suggests that we are not only
concerned with the integrity of the code segment but that
a source of truth exists to verify against. This technique
name is rooted in the computer science domain; the term
code segment is used in many computer science textbooks
to describe the machine code portions of an executable ﬁle.
Additional research is required to objectively quantify the
quality of technique names.
Now that we have vocabulary for understanding a speciﬁc
D3FEND technique, we can ask the vendor key questions:
Under what circumstances does your technology read and
verify the process code segments? What is the source of truth
used in the veriﬁcation of the code segments; is it on the
victim machine or a remote system? What happens if the code
segments are determined to be invalid? The answers to these
questions were interesting and illustrated the creativity and
cleverness of the cybersecurity technology developers.
This knowledge, intellectual property references, and anal-
ysis were recorded in our D3FEND knowledge graph under
the technique Process Code Segment Veriﬁcation. With this
information organized and the intellectual property catalogued,
practitioners are now able not only to understand how the
technique works but also to consider which approach is more
suitable to their unique requirements.
Our example— process code segment veriﬁcation —
illustrates positioning within two key dimensions of semantic
speciﬁcity, Figure 6. The level of speciﬁcity required for
describing functionality is dependent on usage context.
Our taxonomical approach accommodates various levels of
speciﬁcity. This enables the model to be easily tailored to a
particular use case. For example, an acquisition analyst may
require more generalization, while an engineer may require
more speciﬁcity.
D. D3FEND Tactics & Techniques
As we developed techniques in the D3FEND knowledge
graph, we identiﬁed sets of similar techniques that had com-
mon relationships. For example, some techniques primarily
analyze raw network trafﬁc, while others focus purely on
process analysis. These techniques then naturally grouped
together further to organize more general types of techniques.

===== Page 008 =====
Fig. 6. Key Dimensions of Semantic Speciﬁcity
We distinguish the top-level techniques as base techniques ,
from which all the other techniques are derived. For example,
the technique process code segment veriﬁcation falls under the
base technique “Process Analysis.”
As we grouped the techniques, we identiﬁed another higher-
level concept, the defensive tactic. A defensive tactic is the
most general organizing class in the D3FEND knowledge
graph; see Figure 4. A defensive tactic is a maneuver in
response to some adversary action. These are action-oriented
and carefully selected terms to generalize multiple techniques.
Example defensive tactics we identiﬁed are Detect, Harden,
Deceive, Evict, and Isolate.
The tactics are represented in the top row, and the base
techniques are represented in the second row of Figure 3.
More speciﬁc defensive techniques appear in the columns
below the base techniques. Techniques belong to only one base
technique; in general, techniques form a hierarchy from the
most general to the most speciﬁc. For clarity, only two levels
of the defensive technique hierarchy are depicted in Figure 3.
Finally, the circled number in the individual techniques rep-
resents the number of source documents analyzed to develop
the technique.
An implicit notion of state is expressed in terms chosen
for tactics. A defender cannot Evict an adversary if he cannot
Detect the adversary, and he cannot Detect the adversary if
they are not there. Ideally, the defender would Harden his
environment before the adversary penetrates it.
Tactics are the maneuvers defenders take against an
adversary—“the what” of an action. The techniques are the
methods used to employ those actions—“the how” of imple-
menting the tactic. We say that these tactics are enabled by
the techniques.
E. Digital Objects, Digital Artifacts, and Technique Mapping
A key construct in D3FEND is the Digital Artifact Ontol-
ogy (DAO) . This ontology speciﬁes the concepts necessary
to classify and represent the digital objects of interest for
cybersecurity analysis. In the D3FEND knowledge model, a
Fig. 7. Offensive and Defensive Techniques Mapping Via Digital Artifacts
digital object becomes a digital artifact when a cyber actor,
either defensive or offensive, interacts with the object in any
way. To ensure a reasonable modeling scope, the D3FEND
knowledge model is only concerned with capturing knowledge
about digital artifacts relevant to known cyber actors and
known technologies—not all possible digital objects or their
representations.
