I. I NTRODUCTION
During the last few years, the number of open source
software (OSS) programs has increased at a rapid pace. Re-
search published in literature showed that open source software
projects have linear to quadratic growth patterns [1], [2], [3].
In practice, the number of registered open source projects in
SourceForge [4] increased from 136 K to 430 K between
October 2009 and March 2014. GitHub [5] announced that
its 10 millionth repository had been created in December
2013, with most of the repositories being software projects.
∗Heejo Lee is the corresponding author.
Meanwhile, they currently have over 85 million projects, in
March 2017.
The considerable increase in the number of OSS programs
has naturally led to an increase in software vulnerabilities
caused by code cloning, thereby posing dire threats to the
security of software systems. Code cloning, the act of copying
and pasting portions of other software, can be useful if it is
properly exploited [6], [7]. However, in practice, code cloning
is often regarded as a bad programming practice because
it can raise maintenance costs [8], reduce quality [9], [10],
produce potential legal conﬂicts, and even propagate software
vulnerabilities [11], [12], [13]. In particular, as OSS programs
are widely used as codebase in software development, (e.g.,
libraries), code cloning is becoming one of the major causes
of software vulnerabilities. For example, the OpenSSL Heart-
bleed vulnerability (CVE-2014-0160) has affected several
types of systems (including websites, web servers, operating
system distributions, and software applications), because the
affected system either used the whole OpenSSL library or
cloned some part of the library for use in their systems.
Moreover, the lifecycle of vulnerabilities exacerbates such
problems. Even if a vendor were to release a patch imme-
diately after the discovery of vulnerability in the original
program, it would take time for the patch to be fully deployed
through every program that cloned the vulnerable code of
the original program [14]. For example, in April 2016, the
“Dogspectus” ransomware was disclosed. This ransomware
exploits a bug in the Linux kernel named “futex local privilege
escalation vulnerability” (CVE-2014-3153) to deliver drive-
by-download malware to the mobile devices that run an
unpatched Android operating system (versions 4.0.3 to 4.4.4).
Another example, the Dirty COW vulnerability (CVE-2016-
5195), which exploits a race condition for privilege escalation,
was found in the memory subsystem of the Linux kernel in
October 2016. What makes this vulnerability outrageous is that
this bug was already ﬁxed in 2005, but the ﬁx was undone
due to another problem raised by the ﬁx. As shown in the
examples, old, vulnerable code fragments that are supposed to
be eliminated, are ceaselessly re-emerging in various locations
for a variety of reasons.
Many researchers have proposed code clone detection tech-
niques to address clone-related problems. However, to our
surprise, few techniques are suitable for accurately ﬁnding
vulnerability in a scalable manner. For example, lexical tech-
2017 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy
© 2017, Seulbae Kim. Under license to IEEE.
DOI 10.1109/SP.2017.62
595
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:36:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 002 =====
niques such as CCFinder [15] have the disadvantage of high
complexity as it uses a sufﬁx tree algorithm to measure the
similarity between token sequences of programs. In addition,
its parameter replacement strategy is so aggressive that it
introduces a signiﬁcant number of false positives. Similarly,
approaches that transform code into abstract data structures
(e.g., abstract syntax trees) have to apply expensive tree-
matching operations or graph mining techniques for similarity
estimation [16], [17]. Although such an approach would be
capable of discovering code fragments with similar syntactic
patterns, this does not guarantee accurate vulnerability de-
tection because two code fragments with identical abstract
syntax trees do not necessarily contain the same vulnerability.
Notable exceptions are ReDeBug [18] and SourcererCC [19].
ReDeBug aims to achieve both accuracy and scalability by
applying hash functions to lines of code and later detecting
clones by comparing hash values. However, as we show in
this paper, ReDeBug is still not satisfactory both in terms of
accuracy and scalability when it comes to ﬁnding vulnerable
code clones in massive code bases. For example, when testing
an Android smartphone (15 MLoC), ReDeBug requires half
an hour, and has 17.6 % false positives. SourcererCC uses a
bag-of-tokens strategy to manage minor to speciﬁc changes in
clones, which impairs the accuracy from a security perspec-
tive. For example, SourcererCC detects clones in which the
sequence of code is changed, or statements are inserted. As
a result, it misleadingly detects a patched code fragment as a
clone of an unpatched code fragment.
In this paper, we present VUDDY (VUlnerable coDe clone
DiscoverY), a scalable approach for code clone detection. This
approach is speciﬁcally designed to accurately ﬁnd vulnerabil-
ities in a massive code base. To achieve the goal of highly
scalable yet accurate code clone detection from a security
perspective, we use the functions in a program as a unit for
code clone detection. Since a function delivers both syntactic
and symbolic information of the code, we are able to guarantee
high accuracy in detecting clones with respect to security
issues. Moreover, by applying carefully designed abstraction
and normalization schemes to functions, clones with common
modiﬁcations (e.g., variable names) can be detected, which in
turn enables VUDDY to identify unknown vulnerabilities, as
well. In addition, a clever classiﬁcation of functions based on
the length of a function body considerably reduces the search
space, and thus enables VUDDY to work scalably even on a
massive code base. With this design, VUDDY accomplishes an
unprecedented balance between high scalability and accuracy.
In addition, we present a detailed explanation of the princi-
ples and implementation of VUDDY , as well as the application
of the proposed approach for the detection of vulnerabilities.
We further propose a method to collect CVE vulnerabilities in
an automated way. From 9,770 vulnerability patches obtained
from eight well-known Git repositories (e.g., Google Android),
we retrieved 5,664 vulnerable functions that address 1,764
CVEs. Our evaluation involves empirically measuring the per-
formance of VUDDY and then evaluating the practical merits
of VUDDY by demonstrating the vulnerabilities detected from
a pool consisting of real-world open source software. This pool
includes 25,253 active C/C++ projects collected from GitHub,
Linux kernels, and the Android OS of a smartphone that
was released in March 2016. The results show that VUDDY
preprocesses the 172 M functions (in 13.2 M ﬁles, 8.7 BLoC)
of the 25,253 projects in 4 days and 7 hours, then identiﬁes
133,812 vulnerable functions in approximately 1 second for
each project. VUDDY is twice faster than ReDeBug, while
having no false positive with Android ﬁrmware. Meanwhile,
ReDeBug had 17.6 % false positives.
The contributions of this study include:
• Scalable clone detection: We propose “VUDDY ,” an
approach to scalable yet accurate code clone detection,
which adopts a robust parsing and a novel ﬁngerprinting
mechanism for functions. VUDDY processes a billion
lines of code in 14 hours and 17 minutes, which is an
unprecedented speed.
• Vulnerability-preserving abstraction:We present an ef-
fective abstraction scheme optimized for detecting un-
known vulnerable code clones. This allows VUDDY to
detect unknown vulnerable code clones, as well as known
vulnerabilities in a target program. Owing to this design,
VUDDY detects 24 % more vulnerable clones which are
unknown variants of known vulnerabilities.
• Automated vulnerability acquisition:We introduce a fully
automated method for acquiring known vulnerable func-
tions from Git repositories, by taking advantage of secu-
rity patch information.
• Open service:We have been servicing VUDDY as a form
of open web service at no charge, since April 2016. In
practice, VUDDY is being used by many in the open
source community and by IoT device manufacturers, for
the purpose of examining their software. In the past 11
months, 14 billion lines of code have been queried to our
open service, and 144,496 vulnerable functions have been
detected. Please see https://iotcube.net/
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Sec-
tion II clariﬁes the taxonomy and summarizes existing ap-
proaches concerning code clone detection. Section III presents
the problem and goal. Section IV describes the principles
of our proposed approach, VUDDY . In Section V, we ex-
plain how VUDDY is applied to vulnerability discovery. In
Section VI, we discuss issues regarding the implementation
of VUDDY . Then in Section VII, we describe various ex-
periments conducted for evaluating the scalability, time, and
accuracy of VUDDY against the most competitive techniques
on real-world programs. Section VIII compares VUDDY with
ReDeBug, the most competitive technique, in detail. A quali-
tative evaluation is given through case studies in Section IX.
Section X presents a discussion, and Section XI offers the
conclusion and future work.