II. TAXONOMY AND RELA TEDWORK
A. Taxonomy
To avoid confusion concerning the various taxonomies
adopted in other research, we use the following well accepted
([20], [21], [22], [23]) deﬁnitions of the types of code clones.
• Type-1: Exact clones.These code fragments are dupli-
cated without any change, i.e., are unmodiﬁed.
596
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:36:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 003 =====
• Type-2: Renamed clones.These are syntactically identi-
cal clones except for the modiﬁcation of types, identiﬁers,
comments, and whitespace. VUDDY covers Type-1 and
Type-2 clones.
• Type-3: Restructured clones.Further structural mod-
iﬁcation (e.g., deletion, insertion, or rearrangement of
statements) is applied to renamed clones to produce
restructured clones.
• Type-4: Semantic clones.These are clones that could be
syntactically different, but convey the same functionality.
For the purpose of making VUDDY optimized for detecting
security-related clones, we devotedly designed VUDDY to be
able to detect Type-1 and Type-2 clones, which is the right
scope that retains the context while allowing minor changes
that frequently occur after code cloning. In the following
sections, we explain why two former types of clones properly
handle the security-aware context, and how approaches for
detecting Type-3 and Type-4 clones sacriﬁce accuracy, and
lead to increased false positive rate.
We also specify a granularity unit which refers to the scale
of a code fragment, which is referenced throughout this study.
• Token: This is the minimum unit the compiler can
understand. For example, in the statementi n ti=0 ;
ﬁve tokens exist:int, i, =, 0, and ;.
• Line: This represents a sequence of tokens delimited by
a new-line character.
• Function: This is a collection of consecutive lines that
perform a speciﬁc task. A standard C or C++ function
consists of a header and body. A header includes a return
type, function name, and parameters, and a body includes
a sequence of lines that determine the behavior of the
function.
• File: This contains a set of functions. A ﬁle may in fact
contain no functions. However, most source ﬁles usually
contain multiple functions.
• Program: This is a collection of ﬁles.
In summary, a program is a collection of ﬁles that contain
functions, and a function is a collection of lines that are
composed of tokens. Code cloning can occur with any of
the listed granularity units. VUDDY take a function as its
processing granularity.
B. Related work
Rataan et al. reviewed an extensive amount of research on
code clone detection, and reported more than 70 techniques
published in 11 journals and 37 conferences and workshops
[23]. In this section we review some of the representative
techniques which can be grouped into ﬁve categories based
on the clone granularity level: set of tokens, set of lines, set
of functions, ﬁles, or a hybrid of others. The selection of the
granularity level greatly affects the ensuing clone detection
process, and contributes greatly to scalability and accuracy.
1) T oken-level granularity: Techniques that adopt token-
level granularity lexically analyze a program in order to
transform it into a sequence, or bag, of tokens. The token
sequences are then compared for similarity comparison. The
best-known of these are CCFinder [15] and CP-Miner [24].
In CCFinder, the similarity of the sequence of lexical com-
ponents, i.e., tokens, is measured by a sufﬁx-tree algorithm,
which is computationally expensive and consumes a large
amount of memory.
CP-Miner parses a program and compares the resulting
token sequences using the “frequent subsequence mining”
algorithm known as CloSpan [25]. Due to CloSpan’s heuristics
for improved efﬁciency, CP-Miner can scale to the size of
moderately large code bases such as the Linux kernel, by con-
suming less memory space. However, the mining complexity
of CP-Miner is stillO(n2) in the worst case wheren is the
number of LoC, and their experiment showed that CP-Miner
requires a similar amount of execution time as CCFinder.
Aside from scalability issues, the two aforementioned tech-
niques generate a high false positive rate caused by their
aggressive abstraction, and ﬁltering heuristics. Although the
developers of CP-Miner claim that CP-Miner detects 17 to 52
percent more clones than CCFinder, Jang et al. [18] revealed
that the false positive rate for reported code clones was 90 %
for CP-Miner. This implies that this design does not guarantee
sufﬁcient reliability to be useful for vulnerability detection.
2) Line-level granularity: ReDeBug [18] takes a set of
lines as its processing unit. It slides a window of n (4,
by default) lines through the source code and applies three
different hash functions to each window. The code clones
between ﬁles are detected by means of membership checking
in a bloom ﬁlter, which stores the hash values of each window.
Although the line-based window sliding technique enables
ReDeBug to detect some of the Type-3 clones, ReDeBug
cannot detect Type-2 clones in which variables are renamed or
data types are changed. Consequently, ReDeBug misses many
vulnerable clones with slight modiﬁcations. Moreover, the use
of a line-level granularity leads to a limited information of the
context, and it eventually introduces many false positive cases.
In terms of performance, this approach adequately scales to
30 K SourceForge projects (922 MLoC), but it required 23.3
hours to process ﬁles and build a hash database.
3) Function-level granularity: SourcererCC [19] attempts
to detect Type-3 clones by using the bag-of-tokens tech-
nique. It parses all of the functions, and creates an index
consisting of the bag-of-tokens of each function. Then, it
infers the similarity of functions by applying an Overlap
function which is computed as the number of tokens shared
by two functions. If the similarity between the two functions
exceeds a predetermined threshold, they are deemed as a clone
pair. They reduced the number of similarity computations, by
using ﬁltering heuristics that assign more weight to frequent
tokens in the bag to achieve large-scale clone detection. In
their experiment, SourcererCC detected code clones from 100
MLoC in approximately 37 hours, whereas it required 78
hours for CCFinder to execute for the same code base, despite
CCFinder detecting fewer clones than SourcererCC. However,
as a tradeoff for detecting Type-3 clones, their applicability
for vulnerability detection is badly damaged. In many cases,
vulnerabilities are suppressed by inserting a single if statement.
However, SourcererCC cannot distinguish between patched
(i.e., an if statement inserted) and unpatched (i.e., without an
if statement, and thus vulnerable) code fragments.
597
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:36:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 004 =====
Yamaguchi, et al. proposed a method named vulnerability
extrapolation [26], and its generalized extension that exploits
patterns extracted from the abstract syntax trees (ASTs) of
functions to detect semantic clones [27]. When extracted
ASTs are embedded in a vector space, their semantics can
be identiﬁed by the latent semantic analysis technique. In
particular, they perform a singular value decomposition on
the embedded vectors, and obtain the structural patterns of
functions. Although their method is capable of detecting Type-
4 clones, they rely heavily on expensive operations, and the
accuracy of detection is not precisely given in their analysis.
We must note that techniques that adopt a considerably high
level of abstraction (e.g., a function into a bag-of-tokens, or
into syntax trees) might be effective for detecting clones, but
they are not suitable for accurately detecting vulnerable code
clones, because security issues are very context sensitive.
4) File-level granularity: DECKARD [17] builds ASTs for
each ﬁle, then extracts characteristic vectors from the ASTs.
After clustering vectors based on their Euclidean distance,
vectors that lie in proximity to one another within the Eu-
clidean space are identiﬁed as code clones. Such tree-based
approaches require extensive execution time, as the subgraph
isomorphism problem is a well-known and time-consuming
NP-Complete problem [28]. Furthermore, DECKARD does
not guarantee sufﬁcient scalability to handle the Debian Linux
OS Distribution, according to Jang, et al. [18]. In addition, it
was pointed out [29] that DECKARD has a 90 % false positive
rate, which again suggests that code fragments with similar
abstract trees are not necessarily clones.
FCFinder [30] removes comments, redundant whitespace,
line breaks, and carriage returns, and then computes the MD5
hash value of each preprocessed ﬁle. It creates a hash table
in which the hash values and corresponding ﬁles constitute
keys and values, respectively. The overlapping hash values are
regarded as ﬁle clones. In contrast to DECKARD, FCFinder
demonstrates extensive scalability. It detected 915 K ﬁle clones
from FreeBSD ports collection, which contains over 7 K soft-
ware projects, and required 17.16 hours to complete its work.
This extended scalability results from their design choice to
adopt ﬁle-level granularity. However, for the same reason, their
approach is not resilient to minor or major changes within ﬁles.
5) Hybrid granularity: Some techniques leverage a com-
bination of various approaches. VulPecker [31] is a system
for automatically checking vulnerability containment. It char-
acterizes a vulnerability with a predeﬁned set of features, then
selects one of the existing code-similarity algorithms (e.g.,
[12], [18], [24]) which is optimal for the type of vulnerable
code fragment. As it takes advantage of a variety of algorithms,
it could detect 40 vulnerabilities which are not registered in the
National Vulnerability Database (NVD). However, it required
508.11 seconds to check the existence of CVE-2014-8547 in
project Libav 10.1 (0.5 MLoC), which makes it improper to
be used against massive open source projects.