# 3
THE PROPOSED APPROACH

Figure 3 presents the process of our approach. The input of our
approach is a vulnerability with its fixing commits in a software
project. First, we apply an improved SZZ algorithm to identify
inducing commits for this vulnerability. Then, we scan the project
repository to identify the commits that contain the same changes
in the fixing commits and inducing commits. Finally, we infer the
versions affected by this vulnerability based on the fixing commits
and inducing commits.
SZZ for vulnerabilities. As shown in the second motivating ex-
ample in Section 2.2, vulnerabilities can be introduced by a earlier
change on the vulnerable code in the fixing commit. Moreover,
Ozment and Schechter found that more than 50% vulnerabilities are
foundational, i.e., they were present in their initial versions [39].
However, one assumption of SZZ algorithms is that for each line
that is modified by the commits for fixing a bug, the commit that
last modified the line introduced this bug, which is not suitable for
the identification of many vulnerability-inducing commits. So, the
current SZZ algorithms might not identify inducing commits for
vulnerabilities effectively.
Therefore, we propose a modified SZZ algorithm called V-SZZ,
aiming to identify inducing commits for vulnerabilities by going
further back to get earlier changes on the vulnerable code. Similar
to the study of Rodríguez-Pérez et al. [44], we call the immediately
previous commits to the lines changed in the fixing commit as
the previous commits and all the commits that previously mod-
ified the lines changed in the fixing commit as the descendants
commits.
Given each modified line in a fixing commit, V-SZZ first identifies
the previous commit using the git blame command. Similar to
these improved SZZ algorithms [11, 27, 35], we ignore the non-
semantic lines of code, including blank/comment lines and those
involving format modifications. Then, to automatically identify
descendants commits, we first leverage the line mapping algorithm
to map the modified line to the line in the previous version. Then,
we continue to use the git blame command to go back to identify
the descendants commits.
For Java projects, we leverage the abstract syntax tree (AST) map-
ping algorithms [13, 15, 20] to map the modified lines between two
versions of the source code files. We implement the line mapping
algorithm provided by Fan et al. [17].
However, most previous studies for AST mapping algorithms
focused on Java projects and did not provide the implementation
for other languages. Thus, for C/C++ projects, we map the modified
lines considering the string similarity and localization between the
lines. We compute the line similarity based on the edit distance
and set the similarity threshold is equal to 0.75. But this might
result in some incorrect mappings, which would be discussed in
the evaluation (see Section 5). If the line mapping algorithm can
identify a corresponding line in the previous commit or descen-
dants commits, we continue going back by running the git blame
command for the line. This process stops until the line mapping
algorithm identifies the line as a new line, the source code file of
the line is firstly added, or the commit is the initial commit of the
repository.
We consider the earliest commit as the inducing commit for
each modified line of code since vulnerabilities are more likely
to be foundational. Finally, V-SZZ can generate a set of inducing
commits for a vulnerability.
Duplicated change detection. When using Git for software de-
velopment, developers often create multiple branches to manage
workflows of different versions in a project. To apply the change in
a commit among multiple branches, developers often use the git
cherry-pick command to pick it individually or the git merge
command to integrate several changes. We find that the fixing com-
mits or inducing commits of vulnerabilities are often applied to
other branches. For example, in the first motivating example, the
fixing commit 118e1b has been cherry-picked three times.
To infer vulnerable versions accurately, we need to identify all the
commits that contain changes in the fixing commits and inducing
commits. If missing a fixing commit, some non-vulnerable versions
would be considered vulnerable. On the other hand, if missing an
2355
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:19:59 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


===== PAGE 005 =====
V-SZZ: Automatic Identification of Version Ranges Affected by CVE Vulnerabilities
ICSE ’22, May 21–29, 2022, Pittsburgh, PA, USA
Fixing commit
line1
git blame
line1
…
linen
Previous commits / 
Descendants commits
linei
Line Mapping
Change 
Type
linei
’
Vulnerable 
Versions Tags
Duplicated 
Change Detection
Fixing commits
Inducing commits
Vulnerable version
Common commits
Branch 1
Branch 2
Duplicated fixing commit
Non-vulnerable version
Inserted /
New File /
Init Commit
Vulnerable Version Detection
SZZ for Vulnerability
Figure 3: The proposed approach
561cbe
715feb
Figure 4: Two commits in the project OpenSSL with the same
change
inducing commit, some vulnerable versions would be considered
as not vulnerable.
To detect the cherry-picked commits for a commit, we can search
its commit id in the commit message because a sentence with the
following pattern is automatically generated in the commit mes-
sage: “cherry picked from commit xxx”. However, some commits can
be copied to another branch without explicit information in the
commit message. For example, Figure 4 present two commits with
the same change from the project OpenSSL. The below commit in
the figure is copied from the above commit for an upgrade. We use
a hash-based duplicated change detection method to identify the
commits copied to other branches without explicit messages. We
first hash the hunks of all commits in a project repository. Given a
commit, we search for the commits that contain all the hashes in it.
Vulnerable version detection. In this step, we want to identify
the versions affected by a vulnerability based on a set of fixing com-
mits and their corresponding inducing commits. In a Git workflow,
project maintainers usually assign a tag to a commit for a release
version, such as ‘‘n3.1’ in FFmpeg and ‘OpenSSL_1_0_0-stable’ in
OpenSSL. Hence, our goal is to identify these commits with ver-
sion tags that are affected by a vulnerability. The idea is intuitive,
i.e., the vulnerability introduced by the inducing commits will be
transferred to the future commits until it gets fixed. Thus, the vul-
nerable versions are between the inducing commits and the fixing
commits. We first identify the commits with version tags that are
reachable to the inducing commits (denoted as Ci). A commit A is
reachable to another commit B, indicating that A belongs to the
parents or the ancestor commits of B. We also identify the commits
with version tags that are reachable to the fixing commits (denoted
as Cf ). Then, we can get the set of the vulnerable versions Cv, i.e.,
the set difference of Ci and Cf (i.e., Ci −Cf ).
As shown in Figure 3, the two commits in green color are not
vulnerable because the one in the first branch is after a fixing
commit and the other one in the second branch is not reachable
to the inducing commit. The vulnerable versions in the figure are
marked as brown. Finally, the output of this step is a set of version
tags that are affected by a vulnerability, see an example in Figure 1.
