382 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SOFTW ARE ENGINEERING, VOL. 52, NO. 2, FEBRUARY 2026
Fig. 4. Overview of code clone detection process in VERCATION.
of code that preserves well-deﬁned components of statements,
explicit statement order and the execution logic [47].
Method Expansion. Due to code refactoring often outlining
code into a new method, as shown in Listing 2, the codes
in Lines 7-8 are outlined into methods FFMIN. The standard
AST comparison treats the if -condition (Lines 7-8) as com-
pletely different from the FFMIN function call, resulting in
a false vulnerability identiﬁcati on. Therefore, we utilize the
inline technique to expand the method during AST generation to
gather more code behavior within the statements. This involves
obtaining the method deﬁnitio n at the callsite and expanding
the method body inline, resulting in a more comprehensive code
representation. We get the AST for the target ﬁle using Clang
without performing actual compilation. Furthermore, through
recursive retrieval of line numbers for sub-ASTs, we can locate
the sub-AST corresponding to S
v.
AST Normalization. To address structural variations arising
from different developer coding styles, it is essential to nor-
malize the AST. This process m itigates incons istencies and
reduces analytical noise by standardizing code representations.
AST normalization involves conditional struct ure normaliza-
tion, loop structure normalization, and relational operation
normalization.
• Conditional structure can be implemented by if-
else and switch-case. We normalize the structure
of switch-case: switch(expression){case
value1: statement1; break; case
value2: statement2; break; default
statement3;} into a if-else structure: if(exp
== value1) statement1; else if(exp ==
value2) statement2; else statement3.
• Loop structure can be represented as while, do-while
and for structures, we normalize all the loop structure
to while [48].T h e for structure is for(initialize;
condition; increment) {statements;},w e
transform it into while structure: initialize; while
(condition) {statements; increment}.
• Relational operation include commutative and noncom-
mutative operation. Commutative relational operation (i.e.,
+, !=, &&) refers to the operation where commutate the
operands does not change the operation semantics. We
normalize the two operands (left and right child nodes)
of the operation (parent nodes) by alphabetical order. For
example, we transform b+a (b is the left child node) to
a+b(a is the left child node). Noncommutative relational
operation (i.e., >, <=) will change the operation semantic
when commutating the operands, we normalize them by
predeﬁned rules. For example, we transformb<a to a>b
(normalize operation < to >).
AST Similarity. Ultimately, we utilize an in-order traversal
to ascertain whether the commit introduces S by comparing
the AST similarity of S
i and S′
i. First, we perform an in-order
traversal of the ASTs for Si and S′
i, converting the results
into sequences Sqi and S′qi. Then, we calculate the edit dis-
tance between the two sequences as their AST-based similarity
Similarity
B(Sqi,S′qi). We set a similarity threshold ϑ2, and
if SimilarityB(Sqi,S′qi)≥ϑ2, Si and S′
i are considered to
be AST-based similar. If SimilarityB(Sqi,S′qi)<ϑ2,i ti n -
dicates that there is no statement similar to Si in the pre-
modiﬁcation commit. During this process, we classify a commit
as a refactoring commit when it exhibits low edit-distance sim-
ilarity (SimilarityA(Si,S′
i)<ϑ1) but high AST-based similar-
ity (SimilarityB(Sqi,S′qi)≥ϑ2). This indicates that while the
code structure has been signiﬁcantly modiﬁed, the underlying
functionality remains unchanged.
3) Statement Weight Allocation: Not all statements identi-
ﬁed by an LLM contribute equally to vulnerability in triggering
the exploit. To address this, we propose a weight allocation
strategy that prioritizes vulnerable statements based on their in-
vocation of known sensitive functions. The core premise is that
the presence of speciﬁc, high-risk functions within a statement
is a strong indicator of its criticality. We followed a systematic
process to identify and categorize these sensitive functions.
Starting with a comprehensive review of previous studies [49],
[50], we collected existing sensitive function enumerations.
We then conducted a preliminary study of common C/C ++
vulnerabilities to identify the mo st frequent vulnerability cat-
egories, such as buffer overﬂow, integer overﬂow, and use-
after-free, and examined the functions commonly involved in
known vulnerabilities for each type. This process involved three
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 22,2026 at 06:45:34 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
