CHENG et al.: V ERCATION: PRECISE VULNERABLE OPEN-SOURCE SOFTW ARE VERSION IDENTIFICATION 381
prompt also concludes with a declaration of the ﬁxed output
format expected for the model’s response. The content of the
user prompt includes detailed CVE information including CVE
ID, CWE ID, CVE description, and dangerous ﬂow extracted
from program slicing. The extracted dangerous ﬂows are
formatted with line numbers preﬁxed to each statement when
constructing prompts, such as “ 4442 total_size +=
msec->size; 4444 stash->info_ptr_memory =
(bfd_byte *) bfd_malloc (total_size);”.
Additionally, we use the following prompt strategies to op-
timize the performance of LLM:
(i) Few-shot prompting is a technique where we provide the
LLM with a small number of examples demonstrating
the desired task before presenting the actual problem. We
carefully select two examples from publicly available and
veriﬁed CVE cases. To avoid data leakage, the cases are
not included in our experimental dataset. The selection
of examples follows speciﬁc criteria: (1) having complete
and clear CVE descriptions, (2) containing explicit vul-
nerability ﬁx code, and (3) feat uring easily understand-
able vulnerability logic. These examples were created
and reviewed through a systematic process: analyzing
CVE descriptions and patch code, extracting key vulner-
ability logic, annotating relev ant vulnerable statements,
and writing clear vulnerabilityanalysis explanations. The
examples were created by the ﬁrst author and reviewed
by the fourth and ﬁfth authors. To ensure experimen-
tal reproducibility, we maint ain a ﬁxed set of examples
throughout all experiments. Each example consists of: a)
A sample CVE ID, CWE ID and CVE description, b)
Corresponding dangerous ﬂow extracted from program
slicing, c) The expected vulnerability logic analysis, and
d) The correctly identiﬁed vulnerable statements.
(ii) Chain-of-thought (CoT) prompting provides LLM with a
prompt that encourages it to generate intermediate rea-
soning steps before arriving at a ﬁnal answer [46].W e
prompt the model to “Please analyze the code follow-
ing these steps: 1. Explain the vulnerability logic from
the code 2. Indicate which statements are relevant to
the vulnerability logic”. This structured format naturally
implements a chain of thought - requiring the model to
ﬁrst reason about and explain the vulnerability logic (the
reasoning step) before identifying the speciﬁc vulnerable
lines (the identiﬁcation step). This approach identiﬁes the
vulnerable statements using the code understanding ca-
pability of LLM rather than superﬁcial pattern matching.
Table III shows our prompting template, and we take the
vulnerable statements from the response as the input for
the next step.
B. Code Clone Detection
Given the vulnerable statements S
v of a ﬁxing commit (ex-
tracted in Section III-A), VERCATION performs a commit back-
track to identify which previous commit introduced Sv by
tracing the history of earlier modiﬁcations. To achieve this,
VERCATION employs the git blame command to backtrack
Fig. 3. The LLM prompt structure.
through previous commits. Fig. 4 illustrates our code clone
detection process. For each intermediate commit between the
vfc and the potential vic, we compare the post-modiﬁcation
statements (S) with the pre-modiﬁcation statements ( S′)u s i n g
two levels of similarity detection: a quick syntactic check us-
ing edit distance and a deeper structural analysis using ASTs.
The results from both comparisons, combined with statement
weights assigned in Section III-B3, contribute to a ﬁnal simi-
larity score. If this score is below the threshold θ3, we identify
the commit as the vic. Otherwise, we continue the backtrack
process.
1) Syntactic Similarity Analysis: First, we use line map-
ping to pre-ﬁlter highly similar lines in S′ with S, where
S ⊆Sv. If such lines are found, it indicates that the com-
mit is not the ﬁrst to introduce Sv. We use the edit dis-
tance to calculate line similarity SimilarityA(S′
i,Si), where
S′
i ∈S′ and Si ∈S. We set a similarity threshold ϑ1;i f
SimilarityA(S′
i,Si)≥ϑ1, we continue to backtrack the pre-
vious commit. If SimilarityA(S′
i,Si)<ϑ1, we proceed to the
more detailed structural analysis. To note, when encountering
merge commits with multiple parents during backtrack, we
traverse each parent path independently and select the chrono-
logically earliest vic across all branches.
2) Structural Similarity Analysis: As exempliﬁed in Ex-
ample 2 of Section II-C, Lines 5-6 (deleted pre-commit lines)
and 7-8 (added line of post-commit, e.g., included in S
v)e x -
hibit high similarity in code behavior. However, previous re-
search failed to identify this high similarity through simple line
mapping, resulting in the commi t (version) being erroneously
labeled as an introducing commit (vulnerable version). We pro-
pose a ﬁne-grained similarity comparison method at the AST-
level to address this limitation. AST is a tree representation
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 22,2026 at 06:45:34 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
