CHENG et al.: V ERCATION: PRECISE VULNERABLE OPEN-SOURCE SOFTW ARE VERSION IDENTIFICATION 383
TABLE I
SENSITIVE FUNCTIONS FOR SOME VULNERABILITY TYPES
Vulnerability Type Sensitive Function
Buffer overﬂow strcpy, strncpy, memcpy, memset, read,
write, gets, gets_s, strcat
Integer overﬂow add, multiple, bit-shifting, memcpy
Null pointer derefrence m alloc, calloc, realloc, strdup
Pointer out-of-bounds access memcpy, memmove
Use after free free, malloc, calloc
Format string sprintf, printf, scanf
Arbitrary command execution fopen, popen, system
authors with security expertise: the ﬁrst author proposed the ini-
tial categorization, which was then independently reviewed and
validated by the fourth and ﬁfth authors, with any discrepancies
resolved through discussion. The result is the pre-deﬁned table
(Table I) of sensitive functions for v arious vulnerability types.
We analyze each vulnerable statement extracted by the LLM.
If a statement contains a direct call to any function listed in our
sensitive function table, it is assigned a higher weight, marking
it as a probable vulnerability trigger. For instance, in Listing 1,
Lines 21 and 25 are critical trigger lines.
Furthermore, we conduct an inter-procedural analysis to
identify customized functions that serve as variants of canonical
sensitive functions. For instance, the av_callocfunction on
Line 21 is a variant of thecallocfunction. To discern whether
the customized function Fcontains sensitive functions, we ﬁrst
analyze the deﬁnition and implementation code of function F,
then check if F’s function body calls any sensitive functions
from TableI. If such call relationships are found,Fis also iden-
tiﬁed as a sensitive function. Taking Listing 1 as an example,
considering this is an overﬂow-type vulnerability, we recognize
the av_callocin Line 21 and avio_readfunction in line
25 as sensitive functions.
Parameters. There are two parameters for the weight allocation
of statements, i.e., W
sensitive and Wbase, that could affect the
effectiveness of V ERCATION:1 ) Wbase is the base weight for
initializing the weights of all statements. 2) Wsensitive is the
weight for the statements containing sensitive functions. We set
Wsensitive =2 ×Wbase, Wbase =1.0, the detailed weighting
conﬁguration experiment is in Section V-B.
4) Code Clone Determination: We calculate the sim-
ilarity_score for each code modiﬁcation of the previous
commit with the backtrack. We set a threshold ϑ3,i f
similarity_score<ϑ 3, we determine that there is no code
clone between the pre-modiﬁcation code of this previous com-
mit and the vulnerable statements, thus conﬁrming that this
commit introduced th e vulnerability. Ot herwise, we proceed
with the commit backtrack process.
similarity_score = sim_a×Wsensitive +sim_b×Wbase
a×Wsensitive +b×Wbase
where, Wsensitive and Wbase are predeﬁned weights assigned
to different types of statements; a and b are the total counts
of the statements in Sv corresponding to these weight types;
sim_a and sim_b are the counts of statements that were found
to be similar, either through syntactic or structural analysis.
C. Vulnerable Version Range Determination
To precisely determine the range of software versions af-
fected by a vulnerability, we e mploy a methodology based on
the principle of commit reachability. The core premise is that a
vulnerability, once introduced in a speciﬁc vic, is propagated to
all subsequent commits in its lineage until it is ﬁxed by a vfc.
The basis for our analysis is the concept of reachability,
where a commitAis considered reachable from another commit
B, if commit A is an ancestor of commit B in the project’s
commit graph [17]. As version tags are essentially pointers to
speciﬁc commits, they inherit the reachability properties of the
commits they represent. This allows us to map the vulnerabil-
ity’s presence from the commit level to software versions.
Our methodology formally deﬁnes the set of vulnerable ver-
sions (Vv) as follows: First, we identifyVi, the set of all version
tags reachable from vic. Second, we identify Vf,t h es e to fa l l
version tags reachable from vfc. The vulnerable version set Vv
is then derived from the set difference between these two sets:
Vv =Vi −Vf.
We illustrate the procedure by the case of CVE-2021-
20294 in the Binutils project [51]. For this vulnerability,
the set of versions containing the vic is [ binutils-2_35,
binutils-2_42], while the set of patched versions con-
taining the vfc is [ binutils-2_36, binutils-2_42],
with binutils-2_42being the latest version of the Binutils
project. Therefore, we consider the version tags [ binutils-
2_35, binutils-2_36) as vulnerable. This notation sig-
niﬁes a range that includes binutils-2_35 but excludes
binutils-2_36.
IV . EXPERIMENTAL SETUP
A. Dataset
With conﬁrmation from the author of V-SZZ, it is established
that V-SZZ assumes the deleted lines in the vfc as vulnera-
ble codes and manually labels the ﬁrst introduction of deleted
lines in a vfc as the vic to construct the dataset. However, as
mentioned in Section II-C, deleted lines cannot fully capture
the vulnerability logic. Add itionally, it cannot be guaranteed
that the identiﬁed software version will necessarily exhibit the
vulnerability. Meanwhile, V-SZZ excludes the vfcs that only
contain added lines of code in thei r vulnerability selection, as
the SZZ algorithm relies on tracking deleted lines of code to
locate vic and thus cannot handle such cases. Therefore, we
need to construct a ground-truth dataset with labeled vulnerable
versions or non-vulnerable versions of OSS, which are veriﬁed
by a public PoC.
Vulnerabilities. To build a reliable evaluation dataset, we for-
mulate four vulnerability selection criteria: 1) The vulnerability
must be a CVE reported in an OSS project; 2) The vulnerability
must have publicly available PoCs and patches; 3) The PoC
must be reproducible across different versions of the OSS and
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 22,2026 at 06:45:34 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
