CHENG et al.: V ERCATION: PRECISE VULNERABLE OPEN-SOURCE SOFTW ARE VERSION IDENTIFICATION 377
snippets and identifying vulnerable versions through code clone
detection of these vulnerability features. Existing methods typi-
cally extract vulnerabilityfeatures using static analysis in which
vulnerability patterns are pre- deﬁned by human experts: some
consider data and control dependencies from the patched code
[12], [13]; some consider using hashes of entire functions [16];
and some consider only the patch code [14], [17]. These meth-
ods generally produce many false positives or false negatives
because of the inherently imprecise nature of static analysis
and the incompleteness of pre -deﬁned vulnerability patterns,
making it difﬁcult to disti nguish vulnerability-relevant code
from irrelevant code (➊). The majority of the methods for code
clone detection are function-level approaches[18] whereas real-
world vulnerability logic is t ypically conﬁned to (often a few)
statements only. There are statement-level code clone detection
methods but they are limited to textual signatures (such as
Levenshtein algorithm [17] and hash value comparison [12],
[16]), without taking into account the code changes that reor-
ganize code while preserving itsfunctionality. These limitations
hinder the effectiveness of vulner ability detection in practical
scenarios (➋).
These limitations primarily stem from the lack of reason-
ing about the context of the vulnerable code being analyzed.
Recently, large language models (LLMs) have shown remark-
able performance in various code-related tasks, including code
generation [19], [20] and code summarization [21], [22].T h i s
strong performance demonstr ates LLMs’ capability to recog-
nize code patterns and correlations at both syntactic and se-
mantic levels. As such, we aim to address the ﬁrst limitation by
leveraging the power of LLMs. Essentially, we hypothesize that
LLMs can be leveraged to address the imprecision of static anal-
ysis and the incompleteness of human-deﬁned vulnerability pat-
terns (➊). However, there is a challenge of Prompt engineering
in leveraging an LLM in our problem domain. The design of
prompts is pivotal in directing the LLM to produce desired
responses. In vulnerability comprehension t asks, well-crafted
prompts should encompass the code for analysis and offer a
lucid description of the analysis objectives. However, in the case
of current LLMs, merely providing all the vulnerable function
codes and directly instructing vulnerability analysis often yields
suboptimal outcomes. When the function code is too long, the
LLM’s ability to understand the rel ationships between distant
parts of the context may diminish[23], [24]. Hence, formulating
prompts to guide LLMs in gener ating desired vulnerability
logic analyses poses a challenge.
Due to variations in programming styles, variable naming,
and structural differences, code clones may manifest different
changes. Furthermore, developers often streamline and refactor
code through method outlini ng. Such code str uctural changes
often mislead code clone detection-based approaches to incor-
rectly identify the vulnerable versions. Furthermore, prior stud-
ies [25], [26] found that vulner abilities can ofte n be localized
to a few key lines, making ﬁle- and function-level vulnerability
detection overly coarse-grained. The limitation motivated us
to propose a statement-level code clone detection approach to
address the second limitation of current approaches ( ➋).
Our approach. We propose V
ERCATION (Vulnerable version
identiﬁcation), a novel method to identify vulnerable versions
of open-source C/C ++ software utilizing a symbiotic com-
bination of static analysis, LLM, and code clone detection.
Given a vulnerability ﬁxing commit ( vfc), V ERCATION ap-
plies program slicing to extract vulnerability-related statements
as vulnerability feat ures, leverages the capability of LLM in
code understanding to reﬁne the extracted features, and per-
forms semantic-level clone detection on vulnerability features
in code changes. This hybrid method effectively overcomes the
practical limitations of existing approaches. More speciﬁcally,
V
ERCATION automatically preprocess the ﬁxing commits and
construct prompts based on the Few-shot and Chain-of-Thought
(CoT) strategies, enabling the LLM to reason with the vulner-
ability and identify the most probable vulnerable statements as
features. Subsequently, VERCATION traces earlier modiﬁcations
of vulnerability feat ures and applies a clone detection method
based on expanded Abstract Syntax Trees (ASTs) to pinpoint
the vulnerability-introducing commit vic. Finally, VERCATION
identiﬁes vulnerable versions between the vic and vfc.
Evaluation. We meticulously curated a ground-truth dataset for
evaluation, encompassing 12 commonly used OSS projects, 122
Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVEs), and a total
of 1,211 OSS versions. This dataset comprised every patch
released through Git with respect to those 122 CVEs. The
ﬁrst author engaged in manual vulnerability validation with the
help of public Proof-of-Concept (PoC), meticulously labeling
the presence of vulner abilities across softw are versions. On
this dataset, V
ERCATION demonstrated both higher precision
(91.8%) and recall (94.5%) compared to state-of-the-art meth-
ods (SOTAs), including V-SZZ [17], V0Finder [16], V1SCAN
[27], VERJava [28] and Vision [29]. We conducted an ablation
study using three different LLMs (GPT-4[30], CodeLlama[31],
and DeepSeek-V3 [32]) to evaluate their vulnerability compre-
hension capabilities. Utilizing the Few-shot and CoT combined
strategy, DeepSeek-V3 achieved an F1 score of 93.1%, signiﬁ-
cantly improving the F1 score of Joern parser [33] by 92.8%, a
commonly-used static analysis tool. More importantly, during
the evaluation, we found 202 version errors in the NVD reports.
VERCATION has also been shown to be efﬁcient, analyzing each
vulnerability on an average of 28.61 seconds.
Contributions. The main contributions of this paper are as
follows:
• Unlike previous efforts that heavily relied on pre-deﬁned
patterns of static analysis tools, we present V ERCATION,
the ﬁrst framework to integrate the reasoning capability of
LLM for vulnerable version identiﬁcation tasks, through
the use of a multi-strategy universal prompt engineering.
• V
ERCATION presents a solution based on expanded and
normalized AST to address the structural modiﬁcations
in the clone detection challenge, which was designed
for refactoring commit identiﬁcation during vulnerability
backtrack.
• We curated a dataset including 122 published CVEs con-
taining 1,211 versions. This extensive dataset was curated
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 22,2026 at 06:45:34 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
