378 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SOFTW ARE ENGINEERING, VOL. 52, NO. 2, FEBRUARY 2026
Fig. 1. Function timeline from vulne rability introduction to vulnerability
ﬁxing.
across 12 OSS projects and underwent meticulous labeling
through a combination of PoC input validation and manual
veriﬁcation.
• We have implemented a prototype of our approach and
assessed its performance using our dataset, achieving the
F1 score of 93.1%, improving SOTAs by 8.1% to 108.7%.
We also evaluated three contrasting LLMs — a commer-
cial, closed model (GPT-4) and open models (CodeLlama
and DeepSeek-V3) — in our approach and reported that
they achieved similar performances in our context when
appropriate prompting strategies were applied. More im-
portantly, by applying our approach, we have detected 202
incorrect vulnerable OSS versions in NVD reports.
The source code of V
ERCATION and our curated dataset are
publicly available at https://github.com/Veronica-L/Vercation.
II. B ACKGROUND AND MOTIVATION
In this section, we clarify the target problem, introduce the
LLM and discuss the motivation with two examples.
A. Problem Statement
Commits serve as comprehensive records of OSS develop-
ment, functioning as vital checkpoints for tracking the chrono-
logical evolution of code changes. They enable developers to
revisit speciﬁc points on a particular date or time. This paper
centers on vulnerable version identiﬁcation in OSS vulnerabil-
ities. Within the development of an OSS, certain commits in-
troduce vulnerabilities, referred to as vulnerability-introducing
commits (vic), which are later ﬁxed in vulnerability ﬁxing com-
mits (vfc). The vulnerable version analysis aims to pinpoint the
vic, allowing us to assess which versions are susceptible to the
vulnerabilities.
We posit that the initial function undergoes modiﬁcation by
a vic and transforms into a vulnerable function F
v. There prob-
ably exists some subsequent commits such as feature-adding
commits and refactoring commits to optimize the function code,
which is denoted as Fvr. Ultimately, software analysts discover
the vulnerability and ﬁx the code in thevfc, resulting in the ﬁnal
function Ff. An illustrative timeline is presented in Fig. 1.
B. Large Language Model
Large Language Models (LLMs) have revolutionized nat-
ural language processing and have demonstrated remarkable
capabilities in various code-relate d tasks. These models, ex-
tensively trained on vast amounts of text and code reposito-
ries, can understand and generate human-like text and code.
Recent advancements in LLMs, such as GPT-3 [34],G P T - 4
[30], DeepSeek [35] and CodeLlama [31], have demonstrated
impressive performance in code generation [19], [20], code
summarization [21], [22] and program repair [36], [37].
The success of LLMs in code-related tasks can be attributed
to their ability to capture compl ex patterns and contextual re-
lationships in code [31], [38]. Through Pattern Recognition,
LLMs learn correlations and patterns between code snippets
from large-scale training data, enabling them to identify code
with different syntax but sim ilar functionality. Additionally,
LLMs can infer the purpose of code snippets based on their
context. This makes them particularly suitable for tasks that
require a deep understanding of code structure and function-
ality like vulnerability detection. However, the effectiveness of
LLMs heavily depends on the quality of prompts used to guide
their responses. Prompt engineering, the process of designing
effective prompts, has become a crucial area of research in
leveraging LLMs for speciﬁc tasks [39], [40].
Despite their reasoning capab ilities, LLMs also face chal-
lenges in code analysis tasks such as handling very long code
sequences. Therefore, in our work, instead of blindly applying
LLM as a standalone tool, we ﬁrst use static analysis to extract
candidate vulnerability-related codes and then leverage the se-
mantic capturing capabilities of LLMs to improve the accuracy
of extracted codes.
C. Motivating Examples
We present two examples of disclosed vulnerable code in
two distinct scenarios, which motivate our work. Both of these
vulnerabilities have now been effectively r esolved by the de-
velopment team. The key points we wish to underscore are
as follows: 1) The signiﬁcance of understanding vulnerability
behavior in the process of discovering vic. 2) The challenge of
accurately pinpointing vic due to the code structural modiﬁca-
tions introduced by the intermediate commits.
Example 1) A vulnerability in FFmpeg (CVE-2017-14169
[41]) shows the limitation of existing approaches in terms
of capturing vulnerability l ogic. The code snippet of vfc is
shown in Listing 1. A sanitizing check was added at Line
13 for the item_num. Without this check, a remote at-
tacker can make a crafted ﬁle with a large item_num ﬁeld
such as 0xffffffff, causing a buffer overﬂow issue in the
avio_read function at Line 25 and potentially leads the
application to exhibit incorrect behavior or crash.
V-SZZ[17] assumes the deletion lines in the security patch as
vulnerable codes and the basic idea of it is to pinpoint the earli-
est commit introducing the deletion lines as vic. However, vul-
nerability logic is composed of various vulnerable codes, such
as Lines 21 and 25 in Listing 1. V-SZZ only considers tracing
back deleted line (Line 12) and overlooks the real vulnerability
behavior, leading to incorrect identiﬁcation of vic. V0Finder
[16] attempts to identify vulnerable versions using code clone
detection. It generates hash values for the entire vulnerability
function and identiﬁes code clones according to the distance
value of two hashes. This method may still introduce excessive
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 22,2026 at 06:45:34 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
