380 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SOFTW ARE ENGINEERING, VOL. 52, NO. 2, FEBRUARY 2026
Fig. 2. V ERCATION Workﬂow.
In P2, VERCATION retraces historical commits to collect pre-
vious modiﬁcations of vulnerable statements. For each state-
ment before and after modiﬁcation, V ERCATION expands the
functions within the statement, generates ASTs, and normalizes
them. Then we utilize an in-order traversal algorithm to com-
pare the AST before and after the modiﬁcation as code similar-
ity, which determines if the co mmit is the initial introduction
of the vulnerable statements.
In P3, V
ERCATION identiﬁes the affected versions based on
the CVE’s vfc and the corresponding vic.
To note, V ERCATION supports patches that span multiple
functions and ﬁles. In P1, we extract dangerous ﬂows from each
affected function independently, then combine all extracted
dangerous ﬂows as input to the LLM for uniﬁed vulnerability
logic analysis. In P2, we perform a backtrack analysis for vul-
nerable statements from all affected functions.
A. Vulnerable Code Extraction
Taking a vfc as an input, V
ERCATION identiﬁes and extracts
program statements related to a vulnerability in three steps, as
explained in the following subsections respectively.
1) Dangerous Flow Extraction: Firstly, VERCATION con-
ducts program slicing [44] on the source code to extract crucial
program statements t hat may contribute to the vulnerability,
w h i c hw ec a l ldangerous ﬂow . The slicing is based on the
following criteria: deleted/added statements and patch-related
variables. Building upon existing techniques [12], [13], [15],
we execute program slicing on the program dependency graph
of the patched function according to the slicing criteria. We
performed slicing in two directions: backward and forward.
Backward slicing is used to trace the source of patch-related
variables and forward slicing is used to ﬁnd the trigger behavior
that causes the vulnerability. For different statement types, we
customize different slicing rules:
• Assignment statement affects the data-ﬂow values of vul-
nerability behavior. We conduct normal slicing in the as-
signment statements and the assigned variables should be
added to the slicing criterion. For example, if we take
item_num of Line 12 and 13 in Listing1 as slicing criterion
and perform forward slicing, Line 21 and 24 are included.
• Conditional statement affects the reaching condition of
the vulnerability trigger. We aim to slice the condition
statement that takes the variables of slicing criterion as
condition check, and the result also includes all the subse-
quent statements of condition s tatement (e.g., subsequent
statement Line 14-15 of condition statement Line 13, sub-
sequent statement Line 23 of condition statement Line 22).
• Function call statement. If the function call statement’s
parameters contain patch-related variables included in the
slicing criterion, we conduct slicing on the statement.
• Return statement. There is no need for forward slicing
because there is no dependency between the return value
and the statements following the return statement. For
example, there is no need for forward slicing on Line 15
and 23 in Listing 1.
2) Dangerous Flow-Based Prompt Construction: Secondly,
we leverage an LLM to reﬁne these dangerous ﬂows further
since the dangerous ﬂows extracted in the above step (program
slicing) may include false positives (unrelated to vulnerability
logic). We explore prompting strategies to assist LLM in the
vulnerability comprehension tas k and in reﬁni ng vulnerable
statements from the dangerous ﬂows extracted through program
slicing. It is important to note that the LLM’s role is to perform
code understanding and vulnerability logic analysis rather than
to recall speciﬁc CVE information from its training data. Most
vulnerability reports do not provide detailed vulnerability logic
analysis or identify speciﬁc vulnerable code statements [45],
where the LLM’s semantic analysis capabilities become essen-
tial.
Our method utilizes an LLM that supports interaction with
system prompts and user prompts. The system prompt sets the
role and background of the LLM. The user prompt consists of
speciﬁc instructions issued by the user. At the beginning of the
system prompt, we assign the role of a security researcher to the
model with the statement, “You are a security researcher and
expert in detecting security vul nerabilities,” and indicate that
we will provide the CVE information and dangerous ﬂow. The
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 22,2026 at 06:45:34 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
