376 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SOFTW ARE ENGINEERING, VOL. 52, NO. 2, FEBRUARY 2026
VERCATION: Precise Vulnerable Open-Source
Software Version Identiﬁcation Based on Static
Analysis and LLM
Yiran Cheng , Ting Zhang , Lwin Khin Shar , Member, IEEE, Shouguo Yang , Chaopeng Dong ,
David Lo , Fellow, IEEE, Shichao Lv , Zhiqiang Shi , and Limin Sun
Abstract—Open-source software (OSS) has experienced a surge
in popularity, attributed to its collaborative development model
and cost-effective nature. However, the adoption of speciﬁc
software versions in development projects may introduce security
risks when these versions bring along vulnerabilities. Current
methods of identifying vulnerable versions typically analyze and
extract the code features involved in vulnerability patches using
static analysis with pre-deﬁned r ules. They then use code clone
detection to identify the vulnera ble versions. These methods are
hindered by imprecision due to (1) the exclusion of vulnerability-
irrelevant code in the analysis and (2) the inadequacy of code
clone detection. This paper presents V
ERCATION, an approach
designed to identify vulnerable versions of OSS written in C/C++.
V
ERCATION combines program slicing with a Large Language
Model (LLM) to identify vulnerability-relevant code from vulner-
ability patches. It then backtrack s historical commits to gather
previous modiﬁcations of identiﬁed vulnerability-relevant code.
We propose code clone detection based on expanded and normal-
ized ASTs to compare the differences between pre-modiﬁcation
and post-modiﬁcation code, thereby locating the vulnerability-
introducing commit ( vic) and enabling the identiﬁcation of the
vulnerable versions between the vulnerability-ﬁxing commit and
the vic. We curate a dataset linking 122 OSS vulnerabilities
and 1,211 versions to evaluate V
ERCATION. On this dataset, our
approach achieves an F1 score of 93.1%, outperforming current
state-of-the-art methods. More importantly, V
ERCATION detected
202 incorrect vulnerable OSS versions in NVD reports.
Received 1 March 2025; revised 14 July 2025; accepted 13 August 2025.
Date of publication 19 August 2025; date of current version 13 February 2026.
This research was supported in part by Beijing Natural Science Foundation
under Grant L234033, in part by the Nati onal Research Foundation, Singa-
pore, and in part by the Smart Nation Group’s Translational R&D under
Grant TRANS2023-TGC02. Recomme nded for acceptance by L. Pasquale.
(Corresponding authors: Shichao Lv; Ting Zhang)
Yiran Cheng, Chaopeng Dong, Shich ao Lv, Zhiqiang Shi, and Limin
Sun are with Institute of Informatio n Engineering, Chinese Academy of
Sciences, Beijing, 1000852, China, and also with the School of Cyber Security,
University of Chinese Academ y of Sciences, Beijing, 1014083, China (e-
mail: chengyiran@iie.ac.cn; dongchaope ng@iie.ac.cn; shizhiqiang@iie.ac.cn;
lvshichao@iie.ac.cn; sunlimin@iie.ac.cn).
Ting Zhang was with the School of Computing and Information Systems,
Singapore Management University, Singapore 178903. She is now with the
Department of Software Systems and Cybersecurity, Monash University,
Clayton, VIC 3800, Australia (e-m ail: ting.zhang@monash.edu).
Lwin Khin Shar and David Lo are with Monash University, Clayton, VIC
3800, Australia (e-mail: lkshar@smu.edu.sg; davidlo@smu.edu.sg).
Shouguo Yang is with Zhongguancun Laboratory, Beijing, 100194, China
(e-mail: yangshouguo@iie.ac.cn).
Digital Object Identiﬁ er 10.1109/TSE.2025.3599581
Index Terms—Open-source software security, vulnerable ver-
sion, large language model.
I. I NTRODUCTION
O
PEN-SOURCE software (OSS) has become increasingly
popular in recent years, thanks to its collaboration and
cost-effectiveness. In the rapidly evolving world of OSS, nu-
merous versions exist due to continuous evolution. While
OSS plays a pivotal role in e xpediting software development,
the integration of particular software versions in development
projects can pose security risks, as these versions may contain
vulnerabilities. Therefore, having a com prehensive knowledge
of vulnerable versions of OSS becomes imperative for software
developers.
Public vulnerability repositories collect vulnerability reports
of software products and disseminate information regarding
the affected versions of the software. The National Vulnera-
bility Database (NVD) [1], recognized as the largest public
vulnerability database, employ s the Common Platform Enu-
meration (CPE) format to store information about vulnerable
versions. However, the NVD often encompasses all versions
before the reportedvulnerability or designates only the versions
mentioned in the report as vulnerable. For instance, CVE-2018-
5785 reported only version v2.3.0 as vulnerable in CPE[2].Y e t ,
upon manual validation, it was uncovered that versions v2.1.1
to v2.3.0 are all susceptible tothe vulnerability. Recent research
[3], [4], [5], [6] indicates that incomplete and incorrect infor-
mation about vulnerable versions is prevalent in such reports.
Therefore, there is a need for an automated method that can
more accurately identify vulnerable versions of released OSS
vulnerabilities.
Two limitations of current approaches. The approaches for
conﬁrming vulnerabilitie s involve utilizing Proof of Concept
(PoC) to trigger the vulnerability . PoC triggers vulnerabilities
through dynamic execution, offering conclusive evidence of
their existence. However, executing a PoC for each software
version is a time-intensive process that requires meticulous
environment setup. Additionally, the PoC input may not be
universal across all vulnerable versions [7]. Therefore, current
researches use static analysis to identify vulnerable versions[8],
[9], [10], [11], [12], [13], [14], [15]. These methods typically
consist of two steps: extracting vulnerability features from code
0098-5589 © 2025 IEEE. All rights reserved, includi ng rights for text and data mining, and train ing of artiﬁcial intelligen ce and similar technologi es.
Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission. See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 22,2026 at 06:45:34 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
