1 Introduction
Software flaws that can potentially be exploited by an ad-
versary are referred to as security bugs or vulnerabilities.
Reducing the number of vulnerabilities in software by find-
ing existing ones and avoiding the introduction of new ones
(e.g. by employing secure coding practices or formal verifica-
tion techniques) is one of the primary pursuits of computer
security.
Measurement studies on the different stages of the vul-
nerability lifecycle play an important role in this pursuit, as
they help us better understand the impact of security efforts
and improve software security practices and workflows. The
community has produced a number of such outputs in recent
years [5, 8, 14, 18, 23, 28, 36]. A vulnerability’s lifecycle, or
window of exposure as introduced by Schneier [34], describes
the phases between the introduction of a vulnerability in the
code, and the point in time when all systems affected by that
vulnerability have been patched. There have been several
adaptations of the vulnerability lifecycle concept (e.g. w.r.t.
the number of phases or their ordering and its non-linearity),
but the general concept remains the same, and a simple ver-
sion is shown in Fig 1. The lifecycle of a vulnerability (or
t int t f t d t ﬁx t p 
vuln. introducedvuln. foundvuln. pub. disclosedﬁx availableall hosts patched
time Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Phase 4
Figure 1: Simplified plot of a vulnerability’s lifecycle. Continuous
line shows period of possible exploitation.
alternatively the window of exposure to a vulnerability) be-
gins with its introduction into a product (at time t int). This
first phase (Phase 1) of its lifecycle ends with its discovery
by some party (t f). Phase 2 covers the time period during
which a vulnerability is known to at least one individual (and
there is an associated risk of exploitation depending on their
intentions), but is not publicly disclosed yet. Phase 3 begins
with the public disclosure of the vulnerability (td) and ends

===== PAGE 002 =====
with the publication of a patch fixing the vulnerability (tfix).
Finally, Phase 4 ends when all vulnerable hosts have been
patched (tp). The phases described above can be long, short or
even non-existent, depending on the specific vulnerability and
the processes of the affected product’s vendor. For example,
if a vulnerability is discovered by an ethical hacker and re-
sponsibly disclosed, the software vendor has the opportunity
to eliminate Phase 3 by disclosing the vulnerability together
with the fix. This is common practice for many projects. In
some cases (more often for proprietary software) a vulner-
ability can be silently patched, meaning public disclosure
never occurs, and the phases may differ significantly from the
figure.
While the latter phases of the vulnerability lifecycle have
received renewed research attention [14, 23, 36], this has not
been the case for the early phases. A particularly interesting
quantity describing the early part of the lifecycle (Phases 1–3),
is the amount of time a vulnerability remains in the (upstream)
codebase of a project. In the context of a version control
system, it is the time between a Vulnerability Contributing
Commit (VCC), and a fixing commit. We refer to this quantity,
as a vulnerability’s code lifetime, or just lifetime for the rest
of this paper. This quantity can provide valuable insights
regarding code maturity, can guide practical decisions, and
can help us investigate fundamental questions: Is the quality
of software improving? How long should the “stable” freeze
last? Are some vulnerabilities harder to find than others?
What impact do automated testing tools have on the lifetimes
of vulnerabilities?
Previous approaches towards measuring vulnerability life-
times either relied on manual mappings of fixing commits to
VCCs [10, 11, 28], which meant they were limited in scale
(low number of vulnerabilities affecting one project), or used
heuristics to estimate lower bounds [18]. Li and Paxson [18],
in particular, provided lower bound estimates for vulnerability
lifetimes using an automated approach, as part of their large
scale study on security patches.
Research Questions. Although accurately estimating the life-
time of vulnerabilities is a useful contribution on its own, the
real power of a metric comes from the insights derived from
its application. Vulnerability lifetime, as a metric, is less af-
fected by the bias of vulnerability-hunting scrutiny, compared
to metrics based on counting the raw number of discovered
vulnerabilities1. Therefore, it can provide valuable novel in-
sights. The main research questions we set off to answer in
this paper are summarized by the following points:
– How long do vulnerabilities remain in the code? Do these
lifetimes differ for different projects or different vulnerabil-
ity types? How long does it take to find certain portions of
ultimately discovered vulnerabilities? (e.g. 25/50/75 percent)
Answering these questions will provide us with insights re-
garding the duration of the window of exposure for different
1The futility of software quality arguments based on the raw numbers of
vulnerability discoveries is well-documented [7, 17].
projects. Results can aid decisions regarding the amount of
time a “stable freeze” (only critical patches are applied to the
software) should last, and for how long investing on dedicated
long-term security support for a stable version may be neces-
sary.
– Are lifetimes increasing or decreasing over time? Are there
signs of improved quality? Answering these questions will
help us approach a fundamental question of software security
from a novel angle:is software getting more secure over time?
Contributions. We provide the first approach for accurately
estimating vulnerability lifetimes automatically, going beyond
estimating lower bounds, which is prevalent in previous work.
The approach is based on a heuristic that receives as input
a CVE’s set of fixing commits and produces as output an
estimate of the CVE’s lifetime, utilizing information available
in a project’s version control system. We rigorously validate
our approach on a dataset of 1,171 ground truth mappings
between CVEs and their VCCs. Then, we perform lifetime
measurements on a large dataset of 5,914 CVEs, spanning
11 popular Free and Open Source Software (FOSS) projects
(selection criteria for the projects are presented in Section 3.2).
This dataset is, to the best of our knowledge, the largest and
most complete dataset of mappings between CVEs and their
fixing commits, in existence.
Main findings. Vulnerabilities generally remain in the code
for large periods of time, varying significantly between
projects. An exponential distribution is a good fit for vulnera-
bility lifetimes overall, and for individual projects. Overall,
vulnerability lifetimes increase with time, however the shape
of their distribution remains exponential. A vulnerability’s
lifetime does not depend on its type. Lifetimes are closely
correlated with the general code age of a repository. However,
vulnerable code lives less than non-vulnerable code. This
spread (between the age of vulnerable and all code) increases
over time for some projects.