2 Related work and background
In this section, we place related work in context and define
vulnerability lifetime in version control systems.
2.1 Related work on vulnerability measure-
ments
There exists a considerable amount of work on measuring
different aspects of software security. These range from gen-
eral studies on bug characteristics [37], to studies on the vul-
nerability discovery rate and its trends in various software
projects [1, 8, 33]. Another strand of work focuses on vulnera-
bility discovery models that try to capture the vulnerability
discovery rate of specific software products after their release.
Most of these models try to model the after-release discovery
rate as a function of time [2–4, 15, 16], and others as a func-

===== PAGE 003 =====
tion of expended effort, either measured as the market share
of a specific product [3], or the cumulative user months esti-
mated to have elapsed since its release [40]. These reliability-
inspired discovery models most often focus on a specific ver-
sion of software (static codebase) and their accuracy against
empirical data has been contested [1, 26, 27]. Specifically,
empirical evidence [1, 33] suggest that there might be no de-
creasing trend in the rate of vulnerability discoveries, or if
there is, it may be attributed to a decrease in the detection
effort, rather than the depletion of vulnerabilities. Therefore,
the community has identified the need to measure different
aspects of the security process.
There are studies that measure the duration of different
parts of the vulnerability lifecycle (see Figure 1). Frei [14],
Krebs [17] and Shahzad et al. [36] measure characteristics
of Phase 3 of the vulnerability lifecycle, namely how fast
patches are developed and made available, and what the im-
pact of delays is in terms of real-world exploits. Phase 4 of
the lifecycle, namely how fast patches are applied to vulner-
able systems, and how this relates to attacks in the wild, is
studied by Nappa et al. [23]. Phase 2 of the lifecycle, namely
how long vulnerabilities remain undetected since they have
been discovered by attackers and used in zero-day attacks, is
studied by Bilge et al. [5].
The main topic of this paper, vulnerability lifetimes, i.e.
the amount of time vulnerabilities remain in the code in the
(upstream) repositories of non-static projects, has received at-
tention, but limited progress has been made to date. A reason
may be the difficulty of automatically assessing when a vul-
nerability was introduced in a codebase. In a short LWN.net
article, Corbet [11] presented the results of a small-scale study
on 80 CVEs affecting the Linux kernel. This was followed by
a blog post from Cook [10] on the amount of time 557 Linux
kernel CVEs remained in the code. Both of these studies re-
lied on manually curated data (either of the author or from the
Ubuntu Security Team) and only touched the surface of the
problem, being limited to providing one plot of the data. How-
ever, the interest they raised, expressed in lengthy discussions
in their respective forums, acted as a motivation for our work.
The only study that investigates the issue of vulnerability life-
times in a technical paper is, to the best of our knowledge,
the recent work by Li and Paxson [18]. A small part of their
insightful large-scale study on security patches in open source
software is dedicated to assessing a lower bound for vulner-
ability lifetimes. Using an approximation of the exact value
rather than a lower-bound approach, our results regarding vul-
nerability lifetimes differ by an order of magnitude compared
to theirs. Also, due to more detailed per-project analysis, our
conclusions do not support their hypothesis that vulnerability
lifetimes and their types are correlated. In our study, we focus
on how lifetimes differ between different projects and how
they develop over the years, questions that generated inter-
esting insights and have never been rigorously investigated
before.
2.2 Vulnerability lifetimes in version control
systems
A vulnerability’s code lifetime, or just lifetime for the rest of
this paper, has been informally defined as the amount of time
a vulnerability remains in the codebase. This is the time that
elapses between a change in the codebase that introduced
a weakness2, and the change in the codebase that fixed the
weakness (which was discovered in the meantime). In a ver-
sion control system, such as git, SVN, or mercurial, these
changes are part of commits. These commits include meta-
data about each change (e.g. commit timestamp, author) and
the complete history of a repository can be tracked via a tree-
like structure of commits (including branching and merging
commits). A commit that contributed to the introduction of
a weakness is known in literature [20, 31] as a Vulnerabil-
ity Contributing Commit (VCC), and a commit that helped
resolve the issue is referred to as a fixing commit. A vulner-
ability may have multiple VCCs and fixing commits due to
several reasons. Some examples follow:
– a CVE may cover multiple programming errors. For ex-
ample, CVE-2019-10207 describes a flaw in the bluetooth
drivers of the Linux kernel. The fixing commit3 indicates that
checks were missing in the bluetooth driver files of several
manufacturers, pinpointing 5 responsible VCCs with commit
dates spanning 8 years. Another example is CVE-2015-8550,
which describes flaws in 2 linux kernel virtualization drivers
(Xen blktap and Xen PVSCSI), introduced in 2013 and 2014
respectively, and fixed with a patch spread among 7 commits
all with the same commit date in 20154.
– a vulnerability may be removed and then re-introduced. For
example CVE-2017-18174 describes a double free in the
Linux kernel that was introduced in 2015, removed without
being designated as a security issue roughly a year later as
part of a commit that “cleaned the error path”, re-introduced
by a commit that provided new functionality 6 months later,
and finally fixed again within a month of re-introduction5.
– a fix may be extensive, requiring multiple commits. For
example the fix of CVE-2017-9059 included considerable
refactoring of the code and changes spanned 2 fixing commits
2What constitutes a weakness is open to definition and often also to
discussion among project contributors/developers. In the empirical part of
this paper, we count vulnerabilities by their CVE identifier in the NVD,
as often done in literature. We note that the CVE identifier is a level of
abstraction higher than individual weaknesses, in the sense that multiple
related weaknesses may be grouped together under a unique CVE identifier.
However, for the sake of text simplicity, for the rest of the paper, we do no
differentiate between the concepts (1 CVE-ID = 1 vulnerability).
3https://github.com/torvalds/linux/commit/
b36a1552d7319bbfd5cf7f08726c23c5c66d4f73
4more information at https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/
+source/linux/+bug/1530403.
5more information at https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.
cgi?id=1544482.

===== PAGE 004 =====
committed within a day6. Another Linux kernel vulnerability
with CVE-2012-2119, this time a buffer overflow, had a patch
spanning 5 short fixing commits modifying the same file, all
committed on the same day7.
Defining a lifetime metric comes down to explicitly defin-
ing the start and end points of the time measurement.
– Which of the potentially multiple VCCs/fixing commits
should we consider as a start/end point? Considering the
causes for multiple commits either introducing or fixing a vul-
nerability, we decide to use the first of the VCCs as the start
of the time measurement and the last of the fixing commits as
the end. For cases like the first example concerning multiple
sub-vulnerabilities described in one CVE, we therefore mea-
sure the lifetime of the oldest one. For re-introduction cases,
like the one in the second example, we measure the total life-
time. In those cases, this whole period is most often a period
of risk for systems running “stable” software versions (only
applying critical patches), since the premature fix is often not
designated as a security issue, and therefore not considered a
critical patch.
– Which timestamp to use? Most projects use a “main”
branch of development (traditionally master in git) to track
their code, and have a public mirror of this repository so that
users can download the most recent versions of the code 8.
Changes are then developed, discussed, and tested in private
copies of the repository. When a change is ready to make it to
the main branch, it is either (a) prepared as a (typically short)
series of commits based on a recent reference commit and
then merged into the main branch, or (b) directly committed to
the main branch. For the purpose of measuring the lifetime of
a vulnerability as a part of its window of exposure, we would
want to measure the time between the VCC and the fix being
widely available to users (including, e.g. maintainers of soft-
ware distributions). Following this argumentation, we would
use the time a VCC or a fixing commit was merged into the
main branch as its timestamp, rather than its “commit times-
tamp” (because the change may potentially be kept private
until merging). This was indeed our first approach. However,
from our empirical results we came to the conclusion that
this adds unnecessary complexity to both the definition and
the computation of the metric. The time between the commit
and its merging into the main branch is usually very short
(average of ∼20 days) in comparison to the lifetime of a vul-
nerability (average in years). This is due to the fact that the
usual practice after a fix is prepared and tested, is to download
the most recent version of the code from the main branch
of development and create a patch against this version. Fur-
thermore, more complexity in the definition would have been
6more information at https://www.spinics.net/lists/linux-nfs/
msg63334.html.
7more information at https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/
+source/linux/+bug/987566.
8see https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/
torvalds/linux.git for Linux.
needed to account for fixes that were never merged into the
main branch because the vulnerability they addressed only
affected older versions of the software (and were therefore
merged into e.g. a stable branch). Considering the above, we
backtracked and decided to use the commit timestamp, which
is readily available in the metadata of a commit in all three
popular version control systems (git, SVN, mercurial).