3 Dataset creation
In this section we describe the data collection and cleaning
process. This process allowed us to create the largest and
most complete, to the best of our knowledge, datasets of (a)
mappings between a CVE and its VCC(s), and (b) mappings
between a CVE and its fixing commit(s). We therefore con-
sider the dataset to be a valuable contribution in itself and
will make it publicly available for other researchers to use9.
3.1 Linking CVEs to their VCCs
An integral part of our dataset are mappings from CVEs to
their VCCs to create a “ground truth” dataset. These map-
pings come from manually curated datasets of researchers
and project maintainers and enable us to evaluate and validate
methods that automatically estimate lifetimes of vulnerabili-
ties for which no such ground truth data are available.
The largest source we identified for such mappings, is the
Ubuntu CVE Tracker [6]. In this project, the Ubuntu Security
Team gathers and curates several data points on vulnerabilities
affecting the Linux kernel, often including their fixing com-
mits and VCCs. Note that we exclude some of the mappings
in the project from our dataset as their corresponding VCC
refers to the initial git commit of the Linux kernel, leaving us
with 1,202 mappings between 885 CVEs and their VCCs. Our
reasoning is that vulnerabilities found in this commit were
introduced before the beginning of the git era and thus using
the timestamp of the initial git commit would let their lifetime
appear shorter than it actually is.
Additionally, we found 436 ground truth mappings for
Chromium10 (226 CVEs), and 163 for the Apache HTTP
Server (httpd) (60 CVEs) in the Vulnerability History
Project [21]. The project also contains a few additional data
points for repositories, other than Chromium and httpd, how-
ever these repositories do not use C/C++ as their main pro-
gramming language. Since the quantity of those mappings
for other programming languages was too low to validate the
accuracy of our methodology on them, we decided to limit
our dataset to C/C++ repositories. Overall we were able to
map 1,171 CVEs to one or more VCCs, from high-quality
sources.
9dataset available at https://figshare.com/s/
4dd1130c336f43f6e18c
10Chromium is a web browser on its own right, but its codebase is also
used as a basis for Google Chrome, as well as other web browsers.

===== PAGE 005 =====
3.2 Included projects
For our analysis, we want a large representative sample of
FOSS projects that are compatible with our ground truth
datasets and provide enough data points for our analysis. As
starting point, we established the following requirements for
software projects to be included:
(a) The project should be free and/or open source with trans-
parent and consistent security workflows. In fact, all projects
that were included at the end of this process are distributed
under Debian11 as free software. Nonetheless, they are widely
used in other operating systems and make up a good represen-
tation of FOSS in general.
(b) The project should have a considerable number of reported
CVEs. In order to allow a thorough analysis of all projects,
we limited ourselves to those with at least 100 CVEs to en-
sure meaningful results (we expect statistical arguments to be
possible). This condition forced us to discard many projects
we considered interesting, simply because they did not have
enough data available in the National Vulnerability Database
(NVD).
(c) The project should be mainly written in C or C++. Intu-
ition suggests that our methodology would provide results of
similar quality for other programming languages with similar
syntax and semantics, such as Java. However, we did not have
enough ground truth data available to empirically prove this
hypothesis for other programming languages, and therefore
focus on C/C++.
(d) Lastly, we require a significant number of a project’s CVEs
to be linkable to a fixing commit. We had to discard some
projects because it was not possible to consistently identify
the fixing commit(s) for the project’s CVEs.
In the end we created a dataset consisting of 11 different
projects of various sizes, ages and areas of application. All
included projects and their respective numbers of CVEs and
corresponding fixing commits are listed in Table 1. We thor-
oughly investigated commit messages, bug tracking systems
and NVD references to ensure the highest possible – to the
best of our efforts – yield of vulnerability mappings. A general
description of the process follows in the next section.
3.3 Linking CVEs to their fixing commits
Our data collection process is based on information from the
NVD [25]. The NVD is manually curated and represents one
of the largest collections of software vulnerabilities. Conse-
quently, it is frequently used in research on software security,
having generated valuable insights on various topics. At the
same time, the NVD has some well-known pitfalls, that the
process described below tries to mitigate. This issue is fur-
ther discussed in Section 7. For our work, we relied on the
CVE-search tool [13] to obtain a local copy of the NVD for
querying and obtaining data.
11https://www.debian.org/
For our analysis of vulnerability lifetimes, we needed to
link a vulnerability entry in the NVD to one or multiple fixing
commits resolving the underlying flaw. In order to create as
large a dataset as we could for our evaluation, we applied and
combined four different approaches.
1. CVE-ID in Commit Message. Some fixing commits men-
tion the related CVE-ID in the commit message, establishing
a link between CVE and fixing commit. We investigated all
these mappings using a combination of automated scripts and
manual effort. First, we deemed correct all mappings that
mention the CVE-ID in a project-specific syntax (e.g Bug-Id:
CVE-2017-9992) that clearly denotes a matching CVE. We
manually analyzed the remaining 176 mappings, and removed
17 unjustified mappings, corrected 2, and added 212.
2. Commit in NVD Reference. Entries in the NVD often
contain references to third party websites that include security
advisories, bug tracking systems, and also links to commits
in a project’s version control system. In the cases where a
reference to a commit in the respective repository was in-
cluded, we considered this commit to be a fixing commit. We
manually validated the mappings obtained using this method
by investigating a random subset of 50 samples. We found
that all of the sampled commits were indeed fixes for the re-
spective CVEs.
3. Common Bug ID. Many software vendors use dedicated
bug tracking systems in their development process. Each com-
mit corresponds to a bug identifier that is denoted in the com-
mit message using a particular syntax. Thus, most commits
can be linked to a certain bug ID. NVD entries, on the other
hand, may contain a link to the vendor’s online bug tracking
system in their references. Using regular expressions, the bug
ID can be extracted from such links and then matched to corre-
sponding commits. We assume that the developers mentioned
the correct bug identifiers in their commit messages and the
curators of the NVD reference the correct bugs as well. We
recognize that this is a potential threat to the correctness of
these mappings (see Section 7), but are confident the errors
are negligible.
4. Third party mappings. As the information provided by
linking vulnerabilities and fixing commits is useful for var-
ious purposes, fellow researchers and security experts have
collected similar data for some software projects. In addition
to our own analysis, we incorporated this data, especially in
cases where acquiring the information in an automated fash-
ion proved particularly difficult. We relied on three different
third party mappings: (a) data provided by the Linux Kernel
CVEs project [19], (b) mappings that were manually curated
by Piantadosi et al. [32], (c) information from the Debian
Security Tracker [12]. We are confident in the quality of data
obtained from these parties, as they are either curated from
reliable sources or relied on a data collection methodology
similar to ours.
12There were two occasions where a fix belonged to multiple CVEs as
indicated in the commit message

===== PAGE 006 =====
These efforts resulted in a dataset of 5,914 CVEs across 11
projects that can be linked to one or more fixing commits. The
corresponding numbers of CVEs as well as the resulting num-
ber of mappings from this process are listed in Table 1. CVEs
with associated fixing commits are a subset of all of the CVEs
in the NVD. For the calculation of vulnerability lifetime we
could only consider those CVEs, where an associated fixing
commit could be identified in the code repository. Rather
than being a limitation of the approach, this addresses an im-
portant problem with the NVD regarding the reliability of
information on vulnerable products and versions (highlighted
in previous research [23, 24]). Contrary to Li and Paxson [18]
Project CVEs w/ fix. com. # fix. com.
Linux (kernel) 4,302 1,473 1,528
Firefox 2,179 1,498 3,751
Chromium 2,781 1, 580 2,820
Wireshark 600 314 343
Php 663 281 932
Ffmpeg 326 277 373
Openssl 214 144 259
Httpd 248 132 476
Tcpdump 167 115 128
Qemu 340 213 290
Postgres 139 76 141
Total 11,959 5,914 11,041
Table 1: Number of CVEs and mappings per project. First column
gives the total number of CVEs returned from a search of the NVD.
Second column gives the number of those CVEs for which at least
one fixing commit was found in the project repository. Third column
gives the total number of fixing commits found per project.
we focused our efforts on a smaller set of projects with a
significant number of NVD entries available. We dedicated
considerable efforts towards achieving the highest mapping
rate that we could for these projects. In order to do that we
made sure to identify all potential syntaxes for denoting bug
IDs, all websites and corresponding hyperlinks belonging to
the same bug tracking system as well as combining multiple
of the introduced techniques. Consequently, we believe our
dataset to be the most complete mapping for the included
projects. Additionally, we also consider it to be more diverse
than the one used in Li and Paxson’s work, as over 40% of
their data originates from the Linux kernel or an operating
system based on it.
4 Lifetime estimation
In this section, we describe our methodology for automated
lifetime estimation from vulnerability fixing commits. We
start off by evaluating a lower-bound approach used in previ-
ous work [18]. To the best of our knowledge, we are the first
to evaluate this approach against ground truth data.
4.1 Lifetime estimation in previous work
Calculating the lifetime of a vulnerability is a non-trivial task,
as finding VCCs can be very difficult [20]. One approach used
before is manually identifying VCCs via thorough analysis of
the fixing commits of a vulnerability [28]. While this method
likely yields the most accurate results, it is unsuitable for
large scale studies. Therefore, Li and Paxson [18] opted for
an automated approach to the problem. They approximated
a lower bound of a vulnerability’s lifetime by using the git
blame command. Git blame finds which commit last changed
a specific line in a given file, and so can be used to trace a vul-
nerability back to its origin. Li and Paxson’s approach was to
run the command on every deleted or modified line of a given
fixing commit; this process usually returns multiple candidate
VCCs. They then picked the most recent of the commit dates
of those VCCs as their vulnerability introduction date, going
for a lower bound approach.
Although our empirical evaluation showed that this ap-
proach is indeed correct for getting a lower bound on the
lifetime of a vulnerability, we found it too conservative for
our needs. To be precise, we found that it underestimates the
average lifetime for vulnerabilities in our ground truth dataset
by 346.88 days. Due to the large underestimation of average
lifetime, we deem this approach unsuitable for our study.
A heuristic similar to Li and Paxson’s was used by Perl et
al. in VCCFinder [31], albeit for a different goal. Their git
blame-based heuristic aims to pinpoint the exact VCC, with
the goal of creating a dataset suitable for training a classifier
that can flag risky commits. Contrary to the Li and Paxson
approach (that only blames lines that were deleted or modified
in the fixing commit), the VCCFinder heuristic also takes into
account lines added by the fixing commit. The commit that is
blamed the most often is then marked as the VCC.
In VCCFinder, the accuracy of the heuristic is calculated
at 96%. This figure was derived by the authors by taking a
15% sample of VCCs (96 in total) that the heuristic identi-
fied, and manually checking them. Naturally, simply applying
this heuristic seemed like a good fit for our use-case. Un-
fortunately, in our evaluation of the heuristic against ground
truth data, we could not observe similar accuracy (accuracy
~40%). We attribute the optimistic evaluation of the heuristic
by Perl et al. to the difficulty of pinpointing VCCs manually.
Our results seem sensible considering the fact that software
developers put a significant amount of manual effort13 into
regression trackingwhich includes identifying VCCs. Thus,
it seems likely that the accuracy of a relatively simple heuris-
tic like this, is limited. However, for the purpose of training
a classifier that pinpoints “risky” commits, with the aim to
13https://lore.kernel.org/lkml/3519198.TemPj1OATJ@vostro.
rjw.lan/
https://yarchive.net/comp/linux/regression_tracking.html

===== PAGE 007 =====
drastically reduce the search space for subsequent manual
auditing, such accuracy is perfectly acceptable. Indeed, the
authors of VCCFinder showed that it is successful in find-
ing previously unflagged vulnerabilities and outperformed
existing approaches.
4.2 Our approach
A key observation is that we donot need to pinpoint the exact
VCCs for our purposes. It is sufficient to approximate the
point in time when a vulnerability was introduced. We found
that we can estimate this the closest by repurposing the VC-
CFinder heuristic with some slight modifications (similar to
the ones by Yang et al. [41]). We modify the heuristic in such
a way that it returns an approximation (in days) of how long
the code was vulnerable instead of the exact VCC. This is
done by averaging multiple possible dates when the vulner-
ability could have been introduced, and assigning different
weights corresponding to how often each individual commit
was blamed. Our approach is as follows:
1) We use git blame -w14 to map every “interesting” change
of a fixing commit to potential VCCs:
– Ignore changes to tests, comments, empty lines and non
C/C++ files.
– Blame every line that was removed.
– Blame before and after every added block of code (two or
more lines) if it is not a function definition as these can be
inserted arbitrarily.
– Blame before and after each single line the fixing commit
added if it contains at least one of these keywords ("if", "else",
"goto", "return", "sizeof", "break", "NULL") or is a function
call. This approach was shown to perform well in blaming
actual VCCs by Yang et al. [41].
2) We then calculate our estimated introduction date dh from
the list of blamed commits. For n commits we have:
dh = dre f + 1
∑n
i=1 bi
n
∑
i=1
bi(di −dre f) (1)
where bi is determined by the number of blames the commit
i received and di is the respective commit date. For easier
calculation, the dates are represented as difference in days to
a static reference date dre f (January 1, 1900).
Using this heuristic, we decrease the mean error on our
ground truth set by 66% compared to using the lower-bound
blaming heuristic of Li & Paxson, effectively overestimat-
ing the actual average lifetime by 117 days (see Table 2).
However, having a low error on the ground truth dataset does
not necessarily mean that the approach is suitable for our
needs. We have to address some additional important points
regarding the robustness of the approach.
14All projects that we investigated either used git or offered a git mirror of
their repositories. However, the approach is generalizable, as other version
control systems offer similar commands (e.g. svn blame or hg annotate).
−2000 −1500 −1000 −500 0 500 1000 1500 2000
Heuristic error (days)
0.0000
0.0002
0.0004
0.0006
0.0008
0.0010
0.0012
0.0014
0.0016Density
Figure 2: Distribution of heuristic errors in days (excluding data
points with no error for readability). Equally sized bins.
How many data points are needed? A standard deviation
of more than 900 days means that individual measurements
are generally not reliable. Therefore, we need to rely on mea-
surements of the mean over larger sample sizes. Treating the
errors as independent random variables sampled from the
error distribution of Figure 2, we can compute the standard
deviation of the sample mean for a given sample size with the
Bienaymé formula. According to the Central Limit Theorem,
the distribution of the sample mean will be normal for a large
enough number of samples. We empirically conclude that
at least for 20 or more samples, this holds for the distribu-
tion of the errors. Therefore, we can compute bounds for the
sample mean using normal distribution tables. For example,
for a sample size of 20 and a confidence level of 95%, the
sample mean will lie in the interval [117-395, 117+395] days.
Making the simplification that the mean error is 0 (necessary
for generalization), we can say that for a confidence level of
95%, the margin of error will be ±395 days for 20 samples,
±250 days for 50 samples, and ±176 days for 100 samples
(compared to an average lifetime of almost 1150 days, cal-
culated from the ground truth data). We consider the margin
of error for 20 samples as the maximum tolerable error for
our study, and set the minimum number of data points for a
measurement to 20. We, therefore study means of at least 20
CVE samples, although for most of our analysis (e.g. average
lifetimes per project, vulnerability types), we consider means
of 60 or more samples. Note that the calculations above are
approximate and their aim is to get a lower bound for the
number of samples required for meaningful estimation.
Does the weighted average heuristic generalize (over time
and between projects)? Although we have a limited number
of data points in our ground truth dataset, we can see that the
performance of our heuristic is similar for the three different
projects (see Table 2). Another source of confidence in the
robustness of our heuristic is that its error is symmetrically
(nearly normally) distributed around a low mean value (that
can be assumed to be zero), as can be seen in Figure 2. In-

===== PAGE 008 =====
Project CVEs Li & Paxson our approach (VCCFinder) our approach (w. average) Lifetime
Mean error St. dev Mean error St. dev Mean error St. dev Mean
Linux (kernel) 885 -323.74 1,033.27 157.51 1,127.60 163.11 994.01 1,330.85
Chromium 226 -370.32 747.51 -15.54 754.19 -38.44 633.45 754.22
Httpd 60 -599.80 1,160.05 257.45 915.81 22.40 868.91 1,890.23
All CVEs 1,171 -346.88 993.72 129.24 1,057.9 117.00 932.52 1,248.22
Table 2: Comparison of heuristic performance for the lower-bound approach of Li&Paxson, our approach based on a repurposed version of the
VCCFinder heuristic [31], and our optimized heuristic (weighted average). All against ground truth data and measured in days.
tuitively, this means that the errors “automatically” cancel
out. For example, an alternative approach to have more ac-
curate estimations of the lifetime would be to find a suitable
“perfect constant” to add to the lower bound estimation as
computed by the Li & Paxson approach. However, we found
that depending on the data sampled, a perfect constant gen-
erally performs worse than our weighted average approach.
Taking Chromium as an example, calculating a constant up
to some date X and then adding it to the output of the lower
bound estimation approach, does not provide a good estimate
compared to the weighted average heuristic. For example, as-
sume the available data for Chromium is split into two subsets
with fixing commits before 2014, and with fixing commits
in 2014 and after. Calculating a perfect constant on the first
dataset and applying it to the second, results in an average
underestimation of 228.58 days, while the weighted average
heuristic underestimates the correct lifetime by 33.56 days.
Also, the calculated constants between the Linux kernel and
Chromium differ drastically (the kernel constant would be up
to 6 times larger), which shows that this approach cannot be
transferred between different projects, whereas our approach
does not require tuning and provides good results for all three
projects with ground truth data that are available.
Can we use the heuristic to assess trends and distri-
butions? Figure 3 shows the (ground truth) lifetimes of
Linux kernel15 vulnerabilities in our ground truth dataset (867
CVEs), per year from 2011 to 2020. For the same CVEs, it
also shows the estimate by our weighted average heuristic, in
addition to the best linear fits for the trend in each case. Visual
inspection of the plot as well as the relatively small difference
in the calculated best linear fits (gradient of 163 days/year
for heuristic, 155 days/year for ground truth) supports the as-
sertion that the heuristic can be used to study lifetime trends
over time.
To assess whether the heuristic is also suitable for estimat-
ing the distribution of vulnerability lifetimes, we plot and
compare the histograms of the ground truth data and the out-
put of the heuristic for the same CVEs (Figure 4). The his-
tograms showcase similar characteristics and the exponential
15We use the Linux kernel for this investigation, since it is the project with
the most data points in our ground truth dataset (see Table 2). However, the
same conclusion can be made by using the ground truth data for Chromium.
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
year of fixing commit
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500lifetime in days
Heuristic Lifetime
Groundtruth lifetime
Figure 3: Comparison of heuristic vs ground truth values for historic
trend of vulnerability lifetimes in the linux kernel. Linear OLS fit.
distribution appears to be a good fit to both the heuristic and
ground truth data for most of the data range (see Q-Q plots in
Figure 4). Overall, our experiments support the assertion that
the heuristic can be used to study the distribution of lifetimes.