ilarity 85 %, 2 token stride. CCFinderX Min length 50 tokens, min token types 12. to the Github projects, we downloaded the ﬁrmware of several Android smartphones. B. Scalability evaluation First, we evaluated the scalability of VUDDY , against four publicly available and competitive techniques (SourcererCC, ReDeBug, DECKARD, and CCFinderX) in terms of varying target program size. Note that as Wang et al. [44] pointed out, the conﬁguration choices have a signiﬁcant impact on the behavior of the tools that are compared. As a remedy, we referenced the optimal conﬁguration of each technique found by [44], [45], and [19] to conduct a sufﬁciently fair evaluation. The conﬁguration can be found in Table II. To focus on the scalability of tools when handling real- world programs, we generated target sets of varying sizes, from 1 KLoC to 1 BLoC, by randomly selecting projects from the 25,253 Git projects we collected. All experiments were iterated ﬁve times each (except for SourcererCC, with which we iterated twice), to ensure that the results are reliable. As described in Table I, VUDDY overwhelmed other tech- niques. DECKARD had the least scalability, failing to process 100 MLoC target because of a memory error. In the case of CCFinderX, a ﬁle I/O error occurred after 3 days of execution for a 1 BLoC target. VUDDY ﬁnished generating ﬁngerprints and detecting clones of the 1 BLoC target in only 14 hour and 17 minutes. Although SourcererCC and ReDeBug also scaled to 1 BLoC, their execution is considerably slower than that of VUDDY . ReDeBug required more than a day, and SourcererCC required 25 days to ﬁnish detecting clones from the same 1 BLoC target. Fig. 6 displays a graph depicting the results in Table I. We can clearly see that the execution time of the other state-of-the-art techniques explodes as the target size grows. In fact, VUDDY scales even to the size of all 25,253 repositories consisting of 8.7 BLoC with ease, requiring only 4 days and 7 hours. C. Accuracy evaluation Now we evaluate the accuracy of VUDDY by comparing the number of false pos
[NEEDS TABLE REPAIR]
