(a) Target preprocessing times.
 (b) Matching times.
 (c) Total times (preprocessing + matching).
Figure 4: Target preprocessing and matching time spent on target software with various sizes.
utilized the security patches as they were, there was no need
for signature generation time. Unlike VUDDY , which simply
extracts vulnerable functions, MOVERY required more time
as it needed to reconstruct the oldest vulnerable functions and
analyze the code line dependencies of functions; note that the
signature generation is a one-time task.
Target preprocessing and matching times.Figure 4 shows
the target preprocessing and matching times for the three tools.
The results present the following three main observations.
(1) VUDDY requires the longest target preprocessing time.
(2) MOVERY requires the longest matching time.
(3) In total elapsed time,MOVERY requires the least amount
of time and VUDDY requires the longest time (owing to
its long preprocessing time).
To precisely discover VCCs,MOVERY used the finer granular-
ity (i.e., a set of code lines) that is slower than function units
in VCC discovery [17], and further considered dependencies
of code lines in matching, resulting in a longer matching time
than ReDeBug and VUDDY . Nevertheless, (1) target prepro-
cessing and matching could be performed within 200 s in
MOVERY per target software (i.e., the fastest among the three
tools) and (2) the time was not significantly increased even
when the lines of code of the target software varied from
213 K to 14.5 M (see Table 3), suggesting that MOVERY is
sufficiently fast and scalable for practical use.
5.5 Efficacy of the search space reduction
To reduce the VCC search space, MOVERY focuses only on
the borrowed code parts of the target software. Here we eval-
uate the efficacy of the search space reduction technique.
Scalability improvement. The cumulative number of direc-
tories and code lines in ten target software were 539,781 and
28,548,340, respectively. When considering only borrowed
code parts, the number of directories decreases to 375,489
(70%), and the number of code lines to be scanned was re-
duced by 15,130,620 (53%), suggesting that MOVERY can
skip approximately half of the software’s codebase that does
not need to be scanned, which ensures higher scalability.
Accuracy enhancement. In addition, we confirmed that fo-
cusing on borrowed code parts can reduce FPs in VCC discov-
ery. Existing approaches search VCCs for the entire codebase;
searching for “propagated” VCCs outside the “reuse” code
regions makes existing approaches misinterpret a function,
which has similar syntax but completely different semantics
with vulnerability signature, as a VCC, thereby producing
more FPs. Quantitatively, 3 FPs and 24 FPs of VUDDY and
ReDeBug were discovered outside of the “reuse” code re-
gions, respectively. MOVERY was able to reduce such FPs by
considering only the vulnerabilities of the reused OSS and
the code parts where the OSS exists.
5.6 Case study: Vulnerability in Git
MOVERY discovered that the fix for CVE-2019-9169 ( i.e.,
a heap-based buffer over-read vulnerability existed prior to
Glibc v2.30) is not applied to the latest version of Git, which
is one of the most popular version control systems. Since
Git reused an older version of Glibc earlier than v2.27, the
syntax of the VCC discovered in Git was quite different (i.e.,
the syntax similarity was 65%) from that specified in the
disclosed patch for CVE-2019-9169. Worse, we confirmed
that this vulnerability can still cause memory leaks in the
latest version of Git. We responsibly reported this to the Git
team; they confirmed our report and replied that it will be
addressed in a later task because they determined that this
vulnerability does not presently pose a serious threat (we
discuss responsible vulnerability disclosure in Section 6).
6 Discussion
Threshold setting. We used two threshold values: we skipped
normalized code lines when the number of characters is less
than 15, and used θ of 0.5 in the experiment. Since the related
experiments of the latter case were introduced in Section 5.1,
here we only discuss the former case.
Skipping short code lines was determined from our obser-
vations: when we manually inspected normalized code lines
with less than 15 characters, more than 90% were observed as
frequently appearing in non-vulnerable codes such as return
statements, common-named variable declarations, parenthe-
ses, “else”, and “continue” statements. If the vulnerability
signature includes such a short code line, it could potentially
lead MOVERY to produce FPs. When we slightly increased
the character-length limit (e.g., 16 or 17), we observed that the
ratio of non-vulnerable code lines decreased. Therefore, we
set the threshold value as 15 characters. Note that this thresh-
old is dependent on the vulnerability dataset. If MOVERY
is applied in a different vulnerability dataset, this threshold
needs to be adjusted.
3048    31st USENIX Security Symposium USENIX Association