Use of the oldest vulnerable function. When generating sig-
natures, MOVERY considers the oldest vulnerable function to
address internal OSS modifications. In fact,MOVERY can use
any older version’s vulnerable function whose syntax differs
from the disclosed vulnerable function; the reason for select-
ing the oldest one is to cover more internal modifications.
We introduce the rationale behind considering only the
common code line between the oldest ( fo) and disclosed vul-
nerable functions ( fd). Suppose we want to extract essential
vulnerable code lines (see Section 3.1) from the vulnerable
functions. Such essential vulnerable code lines can (1) exist
in both fo and fd, (2) not exist in both fo and fd, or (3) exist
in either one. Let vo be the oldest vulnerable version, and vd
be the latest (i.e., disclosed) vulnerable version. Here we can
make two inferences. First, if the essential vulnerable code
lines do not exist in both fo and fd, then vo and vd should be
excluded from the versions affected by vulnerability. Next, if
the essential vulnerable code lines exist only in fd and not in
fo, then vo should be left out of the affected versions.
Based on these inferences, we can conclude that the es-
sential vulnerable code lines are simultaneously included in
fo and fd as long as the version information affected by the
vulnerability includes both vo and vd. In this context, we can
justify our approach as long as the NVD, which is our data
source (see Section 4.1), provides correct CPE.
Vulnerability disclosure. We reported 14 triggerable VCCs
(e.g., using Proofs-of-Concept), which were discovered in
the target software such as Git and OpenMVG, and in other
popular OSS projects such as LibA V and LibGDX, to the
development teams; it is noteworthy that 10 out of 14 VCCs
were discovered only in MOVERY and not in previous VCC
discovery techniques (e.g., [14, 17, 49]).
(1) Vulnerability confirmed.Nine development teams con-
firmed our vulnerability reports, of which two of them
were patched, and another two of them will be resolved.
(2) Under discussions. For the remaining five cases, we are
still discussing or waiting for answers (e.g., LibA V and
OpenMVG), of which one pull request is pending.
Other VCCs that have not yet been successfully reproduced
are on hold to report because we can hardly receive a response
from the development teams even if reported. We will not
disclose any VCCs until a security patch is applied, and we
plan to trigger such VCCs with the help of a collaborator or
refer to the related approaches (e.g., [18, 27]) for triggering a
propagated vulnerability; if a VCC is successfully reproduced,
we will immediately report it to the development team.
Limitations. MOVERY leverages some assumptions that can
limit its application. First,MOVERY can discover VCCs when
the source code for the target software is available; if the
control and data dependencies of functions in a binary can be
accurately investigated, we expect that the methodology of
MOVERY may be applied to binary-level VCC discovery.
Second, NVD may provide incorrect CPEs for some
CVEs [8,47], which could impair the accuracy of reconstruct-
ing older vulnerable functions. Although we manually verified
the CPEs (see Section 4.1), this is inefficient for practical use,
and if the correct version range (CPEs) of a vulnerability is
provided, the effectiveness of MOVERY will be improved.
Third, MOVERY considers vulnerabilities within functions
and cannot discover VCCs whose patches are out of functions
(e.g., inter-functional or C preprocessor-dependent vulnera-
bilities). Because MOVERY considers a function as a basic
unit, it cannot address C preprocessor-dependent vulnerabili-
ties, but we are considering addressing inter-functional vul-
nerabilities by including the correlation information of such
inter-functions (e.g., inter-function data flows) into signatures.
Last, even if we set θ to extremes (i.e., 0 and 1), MOVERY
still produces 4 FNs and 3 FPs; FNs were caused by VCCs
with similar semantics but syntactically changed code, and
FPs were produced owing to the syntactically similar func-
tions with different patches applied (see Section 5.1). If
MOVERY can handle Type-4 clones and if abstraction is not
used, such FNs and FPs can be reduced, respectively. How-
ever, this may rather compromise the scalability and accuracy
of MOVERY . Therefore, we retain the current MOVERY ap-
proach, which showed much superior performance than the
existing approaches, and leave solving FPs and FNs that are
independent of θ for future work.
7 Related Work
In this section, we introduce a number of related techniques.
Code clone detection techniques. There are numerous tech-
niques attempting to detect code clones (e.g., [4,10,15,16,24,
28, 29, 33–36, 41, 42]). However, their concern is not discov-
ering a vulnerable code clone; because such techniques do
not consider the vulnerability characteristics, they yield many
FPs when applied to VCC discovery [17, 49].
Software composition analysis techniques. Several tech-
niques attempt to identify OSS components in the target soft-
ware (e.g., [2, 9, 21, 25, 39, 48, 51, 52]); some of these can
be applied to discover known vulnerabilities in OSS compo-
nents. For example, Duan et al. [9] proposed OSSPolice to
identify 1-day security vulnerabilities from the libraries of an
Android application. OSSPolice utilized constant features to
extract the versions of libraries, and determined if vulnerable
versions were used in the target Android application. Zhan
et al. [51] proposed ATVHunter to precisely detect versions
of third-party libraries by using the control flow informa-
tion of an Android application. Using the identified versions,
ATVHunter verified whether the target application contained
known security vulnerabilities. However, if developers back-
port security patches to the vulnerability or do not reuse the
vulnerable code, these techniques produce FPs (see Section
5.3). Hence, they are insufficient to solve our target problem.
USENIX Association 31st USENIX Security Symposium    3049