Table 6: VCC discovery results of MVP and CENTRIS .
Name #VCCs ∗ #TP #FP #FN #Unique† Precision Recall
MVP 266 220 46 184 8 0.83 0.54
CENTRIS 553 281 272 152 37 0.51 0.65
*: #VCCs discovered for ten target software, †: #VCCs not discovered by MOVERY .
5.2 Comparison with MVP
We then compare MOVERY with MVP [49], a recurring vul-
nerability detection technique, to demonstrate that MOVERY
is more effective in discovering VCCs from modified compo-
nents. Since MVP is not available owing to the commercial
issue, we implemented MVP based on their paper [49] with
their default options.
Result analysis. When we applied MVP to ten target software,
it discovered 220 VCCs (i.e., TPs) while reporting 46 FPs and
184 FNs (see Table 6). It is noteworthy that MVP hardly dis-
covered VCCs belonging to T1 and T2 (see Table 5), because
MVP does not consider internal OSS modifications. MVP can
only discover VCCs that contain all the code lines deleted
from the security patch, and therefore it failed to discover 32
VCCs that do not contain such deleted code lines ( T1). In
addition, MVP failed to discover 142 VCCs with various syn-
taxes derived from fo (T2). Specifically, variable types and
caller function names in vulnerable functions are frequently
changed during internal OSS modifications; MVP does not
consider such changes, thereby yielding FNs. The remaining
FNs were caused by semantically similar but syntactically
changed code and threshold issues, similar to MOVERY .
MVP produced 46 FPs owing to the (1) syntactically simi-
lar functions and (2) the abstraction method. MVP misinter-
preted a safe function as vulnerable when the function has a
similar syntax to the vulnerable function but is semantically
different (11 FPs). The remaining 35 FPs were caused by
the abstraction method: if the security patch only fixes the
abstraction targets of MVP (e.g., variable names), MVP fails
to differentiate between a vulnerable function and a patched
function, producing FPs. Note that MOVERY could eliminate
31 of 35 FPs by utilizing the selective abstraction method.
Finally, MVP discovered 8 VCCs that MOVERY misses;
all of these are VCCs with syntax similarities less than θ to
the disclosed vulnerable functions; two of these VCCs were
also not found in VUDDY and ReDeBug.
Our analysis results affirmed that MVP, which is not ca-
pable of addressing internal OSS modifications, may not be
effective in discovering VCCs from modified components as
it reported much more FNs (i.e., 184 FNs) than MOVERY .
Threats to validity. Although we implemented MVP based
on their paper, some functions may not be reproduced per-
fectly. In addition, the purpose of MVP is to detect recur-
ring vulnerabilities and not to discover propagated vulnerable
codes. Our intention is not to deny the effectiveness of MVP,
but to demonstrate that MOVERY is more efficient in discov-
ering VCCs from modified components.
5.3 Comparison with C ENTRIS
Several existing approaches ( e.g., [9, 48]), including com-
mercial tools such as Trivy [1] and Black Duck [38], have
attempted to discover vulnerabilities contained in OSS com-
ponents by clarifying reused OSS components and their ver-
sions. However, they do not seem to consider the modified
OSS reuse, and further, they do not disclose detailed vulnera-
bility discovery algorithms (even their algorithms frequently
change). Hence, we decided to compare the VCC discov-
ery results of MOVERY with CENTRIS [48], a recent SCA
technique for identifying modified OSS components.
To investigate the vulnerabilities that affect the identified
components, we utilized the “product search” and “version
search” provided by CVE Details [7], i.e., functionalities for
providing CVEs that affect a given software name and version.
For every component identified in each target software, we in-
vestigated CVEs affecting the component and then considered
them the VCCs discovered by CENTRIS .
Result analysis. In our experiments, CENTRIS -based ap-
proach discovered 553 VCCs in ten target software, of which
272 (49%) VCCs were confirmed to be FPs (see Table 6).
Such FPs occurred when: (1) the vulnerable code was not
reused, or (2) the vulnerable code was patched through back-
porting (an example is introduced in Section 2.2).
Furthermore, the CENTRIS -based approach failed to dis-
cover 152 (38%) out of 396 VCCs discovered byMOVERY , es-
pecially when (1) there is a vulnerability in a component that
CENTRIS failed to identify, or (2) CENTRIS predicted incor-
rect version information. Finally, CENTRIS -based approach
discovered 37 VCCs that were not discovered by MOVERY .
We observed that all of them were the cases where security
patches did not be released via Git; if these patches are added
to our dataset, MOVERY can also discover them.
Consequently, we confirmed that discovering vulnerabili-
ties simply based on the component name and version pro-
duced many false results, especially FPs (i.e., 272 FPs), owing
to the OSS modifications. This demonstrates that MOVERY
considerably outperformed the SCA-based approach in terms
of discovering vulnerabilities from modified components.
5.4 Speed and scalability of M OVERY
In this section, we evaluate the speed and scalability of
MOVERY in VCC discovery. We classify the total time tak-
ing to discover VCCs into signature generation (i.e., the
elapsed time for generating signatures), target preprocessing
(i.e., the elapsed time for analyzing the target software), and
matching times (i.e., the elapsed time required to discover the
VCCs). We measured all the times for MOVERY , ReDeBug,
and VUDDY , and then compared the results.
Signature generation time. The signature generation time
using the collected 4,219 security patches (see Table 2) was
2 h in VUDDY and 32 h in MOVERY ; because ReDeBug
USENIX Association 31st USENIX Security Symposium    3047