MOVERY : A Precise Approach for Modified Vulnerable Code Clone Discovery
from Modified Open-Source Software Components
Seunghoon Woo, Hyunji Hong, Eunjin Choi, Heejo Lee∗
Korea University,{seunghoonwoo, hyunji_hong, silver_jin, heejo}@korea.ac.kr
Abstract
Vulnerabilities inherited from third-party open-source soft-
ware (OSS) components can compromise the entire software
security. However, discovering propagated vulnerable code
is challenging as it proliferates with various code syntaxes
owing to the OSS modifications, more specifically, internal
(e.g., OSS updates) and external modifications of OSS (e.g.,
code changes that occur during the OSS reuse).
In this paper, we present MOVERY , a precise approach for
discovering vulnerable code clones (VCCs) from modified
OSS components. By considering the oldest vulnerable func-
tion and extracting only core vulnerable and patch lines from
security patches, MOVERY generates vulnerability and patch
signatures that effectively address OSS modifications. For
scalability, MOVERY reduces the search space of the target
software by focusing only on the codes borrowed from other
OSS projects. Finally, MOVERY determines that the function
is VCC when it matches the vulnerability signature and is
distinctive from the patch signature.
When we applied MOVERY on ten popular software se-
lected from diverse domains, we observed that 91% of the
discovered VCCs had different code syntax from the disclosed
vulnerable function. Nonetheless, MOVERY discovered VCCs
at least 2.5 times more than those discovered in existing tech-
niques, with much higher accuracy: MOVERY discovered 415
VCCs with 96% precision and 96% recall, whereas two recent
VCC discovery techniques, which hardly consider internal
and external OSS modifications, discovered only 163 and 72
VCCs with at most 77% precision and 38% recall.
1 Introduction
The growing number of open-source software (OSS) has made
it possible for developers to reuse neat functionalities from
reliable OSS projects [11, 12, 37]. At the same time, how-
ever, vulnerabilities propagated by the third-party OSS reuse
can threaten the security of the entire system [14, 17, 48, 49].
*Heejo Lee is the corresponding author.
Maintaining OSS components up to date can, in principle, be a
solution to prevent such threats. However, a hasty component
update can adversely affect the entire system (e.g., backward
compatibility problems [40, 44]), especially when developers
reuse OSS projects with code or structural modifications [48].
Therefore, developers often backport upstream security
patches [43] to prevent undesirable threats from vulnerabil-
ities, instead of updating the entire component. To this end,
they first need to identify vulnerable code in the component
to be fixed [13, 43], for example, by leveraging vulnerable
code clone (VCC) discovery techniques (e.g., [17, 49]) and
software composition analysis (SCA) techniques that identify
reused components in a target program (e.g., [9, 48]).
Unfortunately, the precise discovery of vulnerabilities from
modified OSS components is becoming challenging; the main
obstacle is the syntax diversity of vulnerable code, mostly
caused by the following two types of OSS modifications.
• Internal modification of the OSS: The OSS source
code frequently changes during OSS version updates. In
this context, vulnerable codes can exist in various forms
depending on the OSS version, and can be propagated
to other software with various syntaxes.
• External modification of the OSS: Vulnerable code
can be modified during the OSS reuse process, owing to
the nature of the OSS ecosystem where the source code
is often modified in the reuse process [48].
These two types of OSS modifications collectively impair the
accuracy of discovering propagated vulnerable code, as their
syntax can differ from that of the disclosed vulnerable code
(e.g., through public vulnerability databases [31]). To the best
of our knowledge, none of the existing techniques are capable
of precisely discovering vulnerable codes of various syntaxes
present in the modified OSS components.
Limitations of existing techniques. Existing VCC discovery
techniques (e.g., [14, 17, 49]) do not consider internal modifi-
cations of the OSS and examine only external modifications
in a limited fashion, thereby producing many false negatives.
In particular, they can only discover VCCs containing code
USENIX Association 31st USENIX Security Symposium    3037