Figure 5: Types of code modifications in VCCs.
Appendix A Code modification types of VCCs
We analyzed 415 VCCs discovered by MOVERY to better
understand the types of code modifications. Figure 5 shows
the analysis results; note that a VCC may contain multiple
code modification types.
It is worth noting that the variable names and variable types
of the discovered VCCs are mostly different from disclosed
vulnerable functions. We confirmed that most of these cases
were caused by internal OSS modifications. Approaches using
the abstraction method such as MOVERY , VUDDY , and MVP
could address this type of code modification.
Moreover, we confirmed that the cases, in which code lines
of the disclosed vulnerable function were deleted or new code
lines were added, accounted for more than 80% of the discov-
ered VCCs. MOVERY , considering only the core lines of the
vulnerable code, could respond to this code modification, but
VUDDY , considering the syntax of the entire vulnerable func-
tion, hardly discovered VCC to which this code modification
was applied.
All code modification types should be considered in VCC
discovery. We confirmed thatMOVERY ’s extensible and min-
imized signature generation made this possible while other
existing approaches failed to handle some types of code mod-
ifications (as demonstrated in Section 5.1).
Out-of-bounds Read
Out-of-bounds Write
Improper Restriction of Operations 
within the Bounds of a Memory Buffer
Improper Input Validation
Integer Underflow
(a) Top 5 CWE distribution.
 (b) CVSS distribution.
Figure 6: CWE and CVSS distributions for the discovered VCCs
by MOVERY .
Appendix B Analysis for the discovered VCCs
In our experiments, MOVERY discovered 415 VCCs for ten
target software. We analyzed the vulnerability types ( i.e.,
Common Weakness Enumeration, shortly CWE) and severity
(i.e., Common Vulnerability Scoring System, shortly CVSS)
for the discovered VCCs. Figure 6 depicts the analysis results.
First, we confirmed that the 415 discovered VCCs belonged
to 22 CWE groups; the distribution for the top five CWEs
is shown in Figure 6a. The most frequently appeared type
is “Out-of-bounds Read and Write” (53%); this vulnerabil-
ity can lead to remote code execution and therefore requires
extra attention. In addition, we confirmed that many vulnera-
bilities related to memory buffer (11%) and input validation
(7%) appeared; the top four CWEs groups belong to the most
dangerous vulnerability types in 2021 [5].
Next, we confirmed that most (84%) of the discovered
VCCs had a medium severity, as shown in Figure 6b. Note
that 15% of the propagated vulnerabilities had a high severity,
which could pose a more critical threat to the entire software;
it is noteworthy that the case study presented in Section 5.6 is
a high-severity vulnerability. Especially high-risk vulnerabili-
ties need to be discovered and patched more quickly, suggest-
ing that there is in dire need of a precise VCC discovery tool,
such as MOVERY .
USENIX Association 31st USENIX Security Symposium    3053