Table 2: Vulnerability dataset overview.
Category Count (#)
Security patches 4,219
Disclosed vulnerable and patched function pairs 7,762
Oldest vulnerable functions 5,936
4 Implementation of M OVERY
In this section, we introduce the implementation of MOVERY ,
including the vulnerability dataset and the architecture.
4.1 Vulnerability dataset
Collecting security patches. We collected security patches
by leveraging the method used in the previous approaches [19,
32]; we examined CVEs in the National Vulnerability
Database (NVD) and checked ifgit commitURLs (i.e., secu-
rity patch commits) were included in the references. We then
gathered security patches by crawling such patch commits
from the corresponding Git repositories. We chose the C/C++
vulnerabilities as our initial targets, because code fragments
reuse and modified OSS reuse are prominent in C/C++ soft-
ware [17, 47–49]. Consequently, we collected 4,219 C/C++
security patches from the NVD (as of March 2021).
Reconstructing functions. We then reconstructed vulnerable
and patched functions from the collected security patches. We
focused on the header of a security patch, which provides file
commits before and after applying the patch [17, 49]. For ex-
ample, in Listing 3, “aafa3dca2” and “d02e11328” indicate
the commit of the vulnerable and patched file, respectively.
After accessing the vulnerable ( resp. patched) file, we ex-
tracted every function containing code lines deleted ( resp.
added) from the patch as the disclosed vulnerable function fd
(resp. patched function fp). Here we excluded (fd, fp) pairs
that the code changes were not intended to fix vulnerabilities,
such as comment or whitespace changes.
To reconstruct the oldest vulnerable function (fo), we identi-
fied the oldest vulnerable version of the software from which
the vulnerability originated, by referring to Common Plat-
form Enumeration (CPE) [30] of the NVD. Since NVD may
provide incorrect CPEs for some CVEs [47], we manually
examined versions sequentially starting from the oldest ver-
sion specified in the CPE: if a version containing a function
with the same name as fd is first detected, we determined that
the version is the oldest vulnerable version. When software
is maintained with parallel versioning (e.g., OpenSSL 1.0.0*
and 1.0.1*), we infer the version order based on the version
release date. We then accessed the oldest vulnerable version
and extracted fo that: (1) had the same name as fd, and (2) ex-
isted in the path of the vulnerable file; we did not reconstruct
fo where the syntax of fo was the same as that of fd.
Consequently, we reconstructed 7,762 ( fd, fp) pairs and
5,936 oldest vulnerable functions (see Table 2).
Dataset observations. We noted that internal modifications
of OSS can play a leading role in the syntax diversity of
vulnerable codes. To be specific, among the 5,936 vulnerable
functions that exist in multiple OSS versions, we found the
4,623 cases (78%) where fd and fo had different syntaxes.
When we measured the Jaccard similarity between every fd
and fo pair, the average similarity score was 56%. The facts
that fo and fd are different in many cases ( i.e., 78%) and
that OSS internal updates change the vulnerable code syntax
on average by 44%, suggest that internal OSS modifications
should be considered in VCC discovery.
4.2 Architecture
MOVERY comprises the following three modules: (1) a
dataset collector, (2) a signature generator, and (3) a VCC
discoverer. The dataset collector gathers security patches and
reconstructs vulnerable and patched functions. The signa-
ture generator, literally, generates vulnerability and patch sig-
natures for every collected vulnerability. Finally, the VCC
discoverer performs the actual vulnerable code clone discov-
ery on the target software. Each module consists of 800 to
1,000 lines of Python code, excluding external libraries such
as function parsers. The source code of MOVERY is pub-
licly available at https://github.com/wooseunghoon/
MOVERY-public.
Function parser and analyzer.To extract functions from vul-
nerable files, patched files, and the target software, we utilized
universal Ctags [6], a precise and fast open-source function
parser. In addition, we used the Joern parser [50] to examine
control and data dependencies of functions for generating
signatures. In particular, MOVERY generates a code property
graph (i.e., a graph that incorporates an abstract syntax tree,
a control flow graph, and a program dependency graph) of
the extracted vulnerable and patched functions using Joern
parser; from the graph, MOVERY can obtain (1) the entire
control flow of the function, and (2) dependencies between
each code line, which are used to generate signatures.
5 Evaluation
In this section, we evaluateMOVERY . Section 5.1 investigates
how accurately MOVERY discovers VCCs in modified com-
ponents, compared to existing VCC discovery techniques (i.e.,
VUDDY [17] and ReDeBug [14]). Section 5.2 and Section
5.3 compare MOVERY to the recurring vulnerability detection
technique (i.e., MVP [49]) and the SCA-based technique (i.e.,
CENTRIS [48]), respectively, We evaluate the speed and scal-
ability of MOVERY in Section 5.4, and introduce the efficacy
of the search space reduction in Section 5.5. Finally, Section
5.6 presents a case study observed in our experiments. We
ran MOVERY on a machine with Ubuntu 16.04, Intel Xeon
Processor @ 2.40 GHz, 32GB RAM, and 6TB HDD.
3044    31st USENIX Security Symposium USENIX Association