background knowledge, as well as the integration of multiple detection techniques, including tag prop- 
agation, attack signatures, and graph queries. We implemented our framework in an openly available 
prototype and demonstrate its applicability on multiple scenarios of the DARPA Transparent Computing 
dataset. Our evaluation shows that the combination of different threat detection techniques within our 
framework improved detection capabilities. Furthermore, we ﬁnd that RDF provenance graphs are scal- 
able and can eﬃciently support a variety of threat detection techniques. 
©2 0 2 2 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. 
This is an open access article under the CC BY license ( http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/ ) 
1. Introduction 
In the face of complex cyber attacks, it is crucial to not only de- 
tect attacks as early as possible, but also to understand their con- 
text and implications in order to choose an appropriate response 
strategy. To protect themselves, organizations typically rely on de- 
fenses such as Intrusion Detection System. These systems are use- 
ful in that they can point to indicators of compromise and issues, 
but they also typically generate a large number of false positive 
alerts. To identify relevant alerts, it is necessary to investigate their 
context, which typically requires substantial manual effort and ex- 
pertise ( Hossain et al., 2017; Milajerdi et al., 2019b ). As the sheer 
∗ Corresponding author at: Vienna University of Economics and Business, 
Welthandelsplatz 1, Vienna, Austria. 
E-mail address: kabul.kurniawan@wu.ac.at (K. Kurniawan) . 
volume of low-level log data grows, manual analyses become in- 
creasingly infeasible. 
In this context, system-level provenance graphs, which rely on 
audit data represented in graph structures, have recently attracted 
considerable attention in the security research community as a 
promising tool with strong abstract expression ability and rela- 
tively high eﬃciency ( Li et al., 2021 ). Such provenance graphs rep- 
resent relationships between the control ﬂow and data ﬂow be- 
tween subjects (e.g., processes, threads) and objects (e.g., ﬁles, 
network sockets) in the system through a timestamped directed 
graph. Based on that, a large variety of techniques have been de- 
veloped to automatically detect and connect attack steps in such 
graphs. 1 
Motivating Example Figure 1 depicts the provenance graph of 
an exﬁltration attack carried out in the context of the DARPA 
1 cf. Li et al. (2021) for a recent survey. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2022.102828 
0167-4048/© 2022 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license ( http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/ ) 

===== Page 002 =====
K. Kurniawan, A. Ekelhart, E. Kiesling et al. Computers & Security 121 (2022) 102828 
Table 1 
Comparison of attack discovery approaches . ( DS ) refers to domain-speciﬁc, ( N/A ) refers to not available, ( ✓ ) refers to provided, ( ✗ ) refers to not provided. 
Approaches Data Models 
Detection 
Techniques 
Data Reduction 
Techniques 
Attack 
Reconstruction 
High-Level 
Attack 
Summarization
