approach; Section 6 introduces our knowledge graph-based attack 
detection framework, and Section 7 discusses the implementation 
and introduces application scenarios; we evaluate our approach in 
Section 8 , discuss the results in Section 9 and conclude with an 
outlook on future research in Section 10 . 
2. Related work 
In this article we focus on misuse-based intrusion detec- 
tion techniques, which search for well-deﬁned patterns of at- 
tack ( Kumar, 1996 ). Consequently, we organize related work on 
threat detection and attack graph construction into the following 
categories: (i) provenance-based tracking, (ii) tactical attack con- 
struction, (iii) graph queries, and (iv) ontology-based threat detec- 
tion. Table 1 summarizes and compares existing attack discovery 
approaches, which will be discussed in the following sections. 
Provenance-based Tracking Seminal work on provenance-based 
attack detection ( King and Chen, 2003a ) introduced the idea to 
investigate attacks through backward tracking. A major limita- 
tion of initial “naive” backtracking approaches is that they are 
based on coarse-grained provenance data. This typically introduces 
a large number of false dependencies in the graph, a problem 
known as “dependence explosion” ( Hossain et al., 2018 ). Several re- 
4 https://github.com/sepses/Krystal 
searchers introduced approaches to mitigate this problem through 
ﬁned-grained taint-tracking or information ﬂow tracking ( Ji et al., 
2017; 2018; Kemerlis et al., 2012 ). Although these approaches 
can accurately distinguish suspicious and benign nodes, scaling 
them remains a challenge ( Hossain et al., 2018 ). Another ap- 
proach tried to solve this problem by introducing tag-propagation . 
SLEUTH ( Hossain et al., 2017 ), for instance, introduced trustwor- 
thiness tags (t-tags) and conﬁdentiality tags (c-tags) that are used 
to assign suspicion levels to nodes and propagate them through 
the provenance graph. In combination with a policy framework, 
these tags can trigger alarms and successfully identify unseen at- 
tacks in real-time and with low overhead. However, SLEUTH suffers 
from numerous false-positives for attacks with long-running pro- 
cesses ( Hossain et al., 2020 ). MORSE ( Hossain et al., 2020 ) extends 
this approach by introducing tag-attenuation and tag-decay to cut 
down false alarms by more than an order of magnitude. To reduce 
the provenance graph, it indexes all subjects and objects using a 
numeric index. However, none of these approaches leverage stan- 
dard representations, but rely on custom graph models and hard- 
coded rules and policies. Consequently, they are diﬃcult to expand 
and it is diﬃcult to investigate the resulting attack graphs further, 
e.g., by linking them to background knowledge. Furthermore, both 
SLEUTH and MORSE do not explicitly represent the high-level con- 
text of attacks. As a result, it becomes exceedingly diﬃcult to iden- 
tify attacks as attack graphs become more complex. 
Our approach introduces a standard and ﬂexible graph model 
based on an ontology. Hence, with a standard graph model and 
declarative rules and policies, our approach can produce compact 
attack graphs and also ﬂexibly integrate and link them to back- 
ground knowledge. For graph reduction, we use (Header, Dictio- 
nary, Triples) HDT ( Fernández et al., 2013 ), a compact RDF-based 
structure that keeps large provenance graph compressed. We dis- 
cuss it in more detail in Section 6.1 . 
Tactical Attack Construction Provenance-based tracking typi- 
cally relies on a bottom-up approach, i.e., identifying attacks based 
on the causality relationship of system objects, such as processes, 
ﬁles, and sockets. By contrast, several approaches follow a top- 
3 

===== Page 003 =====
K. Kurniawan, A. Ekelhart, E. Kiesling et al. Computers & Security 121 (2022) 102828 
down strategy, i.e., they aim to identify attacks based on high- 
level models of APT campaigns (e.g. techniques, tactics) and/or kill- 
chain phases. HOLMES ( Milajerdi et al., 2019b ) introduced threat 
scores and 16 techniques, tactics, procedures (TTP) proposed by 
the authors to construct a high-level scenario graph (HSG) from 
a provenance graph. This approach can mitigate dependence ex- 
plosion and offers a map to TTP. However, its ability to identify 
attacks with only a single APT stage is limited ( Hossain et al., 
2020 ). RapSheet ( Hassan et al., 2020 ) is an attack graph con- 
struction approach based on alert correlation from a commer- 
cial Endpoint Detection and Response (EDR) tool. By incorporating 
67 EDR rules, it can relate alerts into a tactical provenance graph 
based on MITRE’s ATT&CK TTPs. For graph reduction, it implements 
causality-preserved reduction (CPR) ( Xu et al., 2016 ) that merges 
edges with identical operations and keeps only the edge with the 
latest timestamp. Our approach also facilitates TTP mappings, but 
we rather incorporate rules from open, standard and community- 
driven detection rules (i.e., SIGMA Roth and Patzke, 2021 ), thus 
avoiding a dependence on a commercial platform. 
Another recently proposed approach ( Zou et al., 2020 ) uses 
tactic-centric Advanced Persistent Threat (APT) recognition to de- 
tect APT tactics based on APT techniques’ prerequisites (i.e., re- 
quirements for techniques to be matched to a tactic) and post- 
conditions (i.e., the result of a technique, e.g., malicious process 
being created). The identiﬁed attack techniques are mapped to 
speciﬁc tactics and ranked based on their tactic matching. This
