background knowledge through SPARQL query federation. 
Ontology-based Threat Detection A number of research ef- 
forts investigated ontologies to support cybersecurity and threat 
detection. Early work ( Pinkston et al., 2003 ) developed an on- 
tology for the intrusion detection domain based on DAML+OIL 
( Mcguinness et al., 2002 ) to extend simple IDS taxonomies with 
machine-interpretable deﬁnitions. Ref. More et al. (2012) extended 
this IDS Ontology to incorporate cybersecurity-related information 
from heterogeneous resource (e.g., web texts, reports). 
Uniﬁe Cybersecurity Ontology (UCO) ( Syed et al., 2016 ) in- 
troduced a more instance-data driven approach to construct a 
rich cybersecurity ontology by integrating cybersecurity standards 
such as STIX (2021) , CyBox (2021) , CVE (2021) , CAPEC (2021) , 
CVSS (2021a) , and CVSS (2021b) . UCO provides integration from 
heterogeneous sources and supports reasoning (e.g. using prede- 
ﬁned rules to infer attacks). However, UCO and other previously 
proposed ontologies were designed to support intrusion detection 
rather than attack graph construction. More recent works such as 
Kenaza and Aiash (2016) proposed an ontology that supports IDS 
alert correlation. Through the use of reasoning rules, it can infer 
and classify IDS alerts (i.e., false alert, unclassiﬁed, plausible at- 
tack) based on existing vulnerability information. As the focus is 
solely on attack detection, however, this proposed approach does 
not result in attack graphs. 
In prior work, we proposed a modular ontology ( Ekelhart et al., 
2018 ) that can harmonize and integrate heterogeneous log 
sources (e.g., Syslog, Auth log, Apache log). Subsequent work 
( Kiesling et al., 2019 ) facilitates forensic analyses of arbitrary 
logs and contextualizes them with external background knowl- 
edge (e.g. CPE, CVE, CVSS, CWE, and CAPEC) in a federated settings 
( SPARQL, 2021 ). SLOGERT ( Ekelhart et al., 2021 ) extends this pre- 
vious work with the ability to construct knowledge graphs auto- 
matically from arbitrary raw log messages. It identiﬁes, links, and 
enriches entities in log sources with background knowledge. In this 
work, we extend and enhance our previous work on security on- 
tologies to integrate events from heterogeneous log sources, repre- 
sent them in attack scenario graphs, and link them to background 
knowledge. 
3. Background 
In this section, we introduce knowledge graphs as a conceptual 
foundation of our approach. 
Knowledge Graph A knowledge graph is a directed, labeled 
graph G = (V, E) where V is a set of vertices (nodes) and E is a 
set of edges (properties). A single graph is usually represented as 
a collection of triples T = < s p o > where s is a subject , p is a 
predicate , and o is an object . 
RDF, RDF-S, OWL Resource Description Framework (RDF) is a 
W3C 5 standard data model to represent knowledge graphs. In RDF, 
a subject is a resource identiﬁed by a unique identiﬁer (URI) or a 
blank-node, an object can be both resource, blank-node or literal 
(e.g. String, number), and predicate is a property deﬁned in an on- 
tology and must be a URI. RDF-S (Resource Description Framework 
Schema) 6 is a W3C standard data model for knowledge representa- 
tion. It extends the basic RDF vocabulary with a set of classes and 
RDFS entailment (inference patterns). 7 OWL (Ontology Web Lan- 
guage) 8 is also a W3C standard for authoring ontologies. We use 
RDF-S and OWL to represent our system-call provenance ontology. 
We discuss this in more detail in Section 5.2 . 
Semantic Reasoning One of the central ideas of both OWL and 
RDF-S is that they enable reasoning over a knowledge graph. This 
is an important aspect and enables us to automatically infer new 
knowledge based on existing facts (entities and their relationships). 
We leverage several built-in RDF-S and OWL reasoning rules in 
our approach as discussed in Section 5.3 , which are based on the 
foundation of description logics ( Horrocks, 2005 ). Furthermore, in 
our approach, semantic reasoning is used to simplify RDF map- 
pings during the provenance graph building process (discussed in 
more detail in Section 6.1 ) and to reduce the query complexity, e.g., 
for attack reconstruction i.e. backward-forward chaining mechanism 
(discussed in Section 6.3 ). 
SPARQL SPARQL 9 is a W3C query language to retrieve and ma- 
nipulate data stored in RDF. It offers rich expressivity for com- 
plex queries such as aggregation, subqueries, and negation. Fur- 
thermore, SPARQL provides capabilities to express queries across 
multiple distributed data sources through SPARQL query federa- 
5 https://www.w3.org/standards 
6 https://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-schema/ 
7 https://www.w3.org/TR/rdf11-mt/ 
8 https://www.w3.org/TR/owl2-overview/ 
9 https://www.w3.org/TR/sparql11-overview/ 
4

===== Page 004 =====
K. Kurniawan, A. Ekelhart, E. Kiesling et al. Computers & Security 121 (2022) 102828 
tion. 10 In the security context, this is a major beneﬁt, as security- 
relevant information is typically dispersed across different sys- 
tems and networks and requires the consideration of e.g., different 
log sources, IT repositories, and cyberthreat intelligence sources 
( Kurniawan et al., 2020 ). 
4. Requirements 
Based on our analysis of the limitations of the state of the art 
(cf. Section 2 ), we identify the following set of requirements for the 
construction of a modular framework for knowledge graph-driven 
tactical attack discovery. 
R1. Contextualization 
Investigating and prioritizing security alerts, which typically 
include a large number of false positives, requires extensive 
security domain knowledge to understand the context of an 
alert ( Sarker et al., 2020 ). This makes it necessary to contextualize 
information in the provenance graph with appropriate background 
knowledge, which necessitates a ﬂexible data model. As an exam- 
ple, important contextual information on the system under eval- 
uation includes installed software and patch versions of the host 
where an alert has been raised. Existing approaches (e.g., Hossain 
et al., 2020; Milajerdi et al., 2019a ) typically hard-code some con- 
text information (e.g., external networks and software), whereas 
the majority currently ignores them altogether. To overcome these
