limitation, the developed framework should – while offering ad- 
equate performance –m a k e it possible to: (i) formulate and ex- 
change rules for detection, alerting, and attack graph reconstruc- 
tion in a declarative language, (ii) exchange instances of prove- 
nance graphs in a standard representation, (iii) query the prove- 
nance graphs in a standard language, (iv) incorporate and exchange 
threat information, and (v) reuse and combine analytic techniques. 
R3. Threat intelligence linking Connecting isolated events to re- 
construct a complete attack scenario is an important step to under- 
stand the relevance and impact of alerts. In this context, an ability 
to link low-level threat evidence to phases of complex multi-stage 
attacks would be highly beneﬁcial. While some existing approaches 
( Hassan et al., 2020; Milajerdi et al., 2019b; Zou et al., 2020 ) aim to 
identify steps and associate them with high-level APT phases, they 
do not take advantage of the abundance of available Cyber Threat 
Intelligence (CTI) information available in external sources such as 
MITRE ATT&CK ( Mitre, 2021 ), which offers links to Common Vul- 
nerabilities and Exposures (CVE) ( CVE, 2021 ), Common Weakness 
Enumeration (CWE) ( CWE, 2021 ), and others. We therefore deﬁne 
the ability to leverage such connections and provide integrated 
querying capabilities as a key requirement for the developed ap- 
proach. This will facilitates abstraction from low-level event graphs 
to higher level techniques and tactics, provide additional informa- 
10 https://www.w3.org/TR/sparql11-federated-query/ 
tion for prioritization, impact assessment and mitigation, and make 
tedious attack investigations more eﬃcient and effective. 
R4. Cross-platform Interoperability Integrating provenance 
data from heterogeneous sources and constructing integrated at- 
tack graphs spanning multiple systems would be highly beneﬁcial 
in the face of complex multi-host/multi-platform attacks ( Li et al., 
2021 ). This necessitates a uniﬁed provenance representation that 
can abstract from speciﬁcs of individual platforms. 
5. Conceptualization 
In this section, we describe the conceptualization of our ap- 
proach and the use of inference for provenance graph construction. 
5.1. System-Call provenance representation 
Provenance graphs are a highly effective representation to keep 
track of information ﬂows ( Li et al., 2021 ). They represent inter- 
actions between objects as events. Each event involves a subject , 
i.e., a system object (e.g., a process, thread) that performs a par- 
ticular operation (e.g., write, read, send) on an object (e.g., ﬁle, 
socket, registry). As objects typically appear in multiple events, 
a graph emerges. Although system-call provenance is represented 
similarly across different existing approaches ( Hassan et al., 2020; 
Hossain et al., 2017; 2020; Milajerdi et al., 2019b ), no formal and 
standardized representation (ontology) exists. Instead, existing ap- 
proaches typically use ad-hoc and hard-coded data models which 
limits their interoperability, reusability and extensibility. 
5.2. KRYSTAL Provenance ontology 
We propose the KRYSTAL ontology 11 as as t a n d a r d representa- 
tion for system-call provenance graphs. Key beneﬁts of using on- 
tologies is the ability to share a common understanding – includ- 
ing concepts and structure, making assumptions explicit, facilitat- 
ing semantic reasoning, and promoting concept reuse ( Noy and 
McGuinness, 2001 ). Furthermore, the use of an ontology for prove- 
nance graph representation makes it easy to integrate background 
knowledge and unify the conceptual model across different threat 
detection approaches. 
In developing the KRYSTAL ontology, we followed a hybrid ap- 
proach, i.e., using bottom-up and top-down approaches concurrently 
( Noy and McGuinness, 2001 ). Bottom-up, we started by analysing 
low-level data structures from applications (e.g., auditlog) and 
identifying their entities and relations. Top-down, we considered 
attack patterns from existing cyberthreat intelligence sources (e.g., 
MITRE ATT&CK Mitre, 2021 ) and compared our ontology to existing 
non-ontological provenance models/schemas. Our developed ontol- 
ogy is able to represent low-level system-call provenance data and 
link it to high-level attack patterns (cf. Section 6.4 ). 
Figure 2 depicts an excerpt of the KRYSTAL Ontology centered 
around core concepts such as User , Host , System Object . 
The latter represent system entities such as Process es, File s, 
and Socket s. We assign each system object so to a class 
(identiﬁed by rdfs:Class ) and potential sub-classes (identi- 
ﬁed by rdfs:subClassOf ). Each system object so is a ver- 
tex v and the relations between system objects (e.g., writes , 
isReadBy , sends , etc.) are represented via edges e (identiﬁed by 
owl:ObjectProperty ). 
The SystemObject class represent system entities in general. It 
has three sub-classes such as Process , File and Socket . The Pro- 
cess class represents a running process in a system (e.g. ﬁrefox, 
ssh, etc.) while the File class represents a ﬁle (e.g., system ﬁle, ap- 
plication ﬁle, etc.). We introduce kry:writes , kry:isReadBy 
11 https://w3id.org/sepses/vocab/event/log/ 
5 

===== Page 005 =====
K. Kurniawan, A. Ekelhart, E. Kiesling et al. Computers & Security 121 (2022) 102828 
Fig. 2. Krystal Ontology - nodes represent concepts (classes) and edges represent 
the class relationship (properties). 
Table 2 
RDFS & OWL Reasoning Rules. 
Rule Premise Conclusion 
rdfs2 e 1 (v 1 , v 2 ) , rdfs:domain (e 1 , X) v 1 ∈ X
rdfs3 e 1 (v 1 , v 2 ) , rdfs:range (e 1 , Y ) v 2 ∈ Y 
rdfs7 e 1 (v 1 , v 2 ) , rdfs:subPropertyOf (e 1 , e 2 ) e 2 (v 1 , v 2 ) 
owl: InverseOf e 1 (v 1 , v 2 ) , owl:inverseOf (e 1 , e 2 ) e 2 (v 2 , v 1 ) 
and kry:isExecutedBy , kry:deletes , kry:mmap proper- 
ties to represent links between Process class and File class. 
The Socket class represents a network connection (combination 
of an IPAddress and Port ). We deﬁned kry:sends and 
kry:isReceivedBy properties that link the Process class to the 
Socket class. 
We also deﬁned User , a class that describes user of a system. 
It has three sub-classes, i.e., (i) RootUser , that represents the root- 
level user, (ii) SystemUser , represents the system-level user, (iii) 
LocalUser , represents the local-level user. 
We also deﬁned Host class that represent a host machine. The 
kry:hasUser property connects Process class to the User class, 
while the kry:originatesFrom property links it to Host class. 
Finally, we also deﬁned several other classes such as Executable 
class that identiﬁes an executable ﬁle and IPAddress that repre- 
sents an IP Address. The kry:hasExe property connects Process 
to Executable and kry:hasHostIP that links Process to IPAd- 
dress . 
Furthermore, we introduce a provenance relation (identiﬁed by 
kry:provRel ) that self-links to SystemObject . It is a generic, 
upper-level relation property that is used to represent provenance 
relationships between system objects (e.g., socket to process, pro- 
cess to ﬁle, ﬁle to process). This provenance relation is automati- 
cally inferred from more speciﬁc relation properties, as explained 
in the following. 
5.3. Inference features in KRYSTAL ontology 
The KRYSTAL ontology uses the RDF-S entailment and OWL rea- 
soning rules summarized in Table 2 for provenance graph con- 
struction. 
rdfs2 & rdfs3 These rules are used to automatically infer the 
speciﬁc type of a given system object based on its relations. 12 
For example, as depicted in Fig. 3 , system object :Firefox 13 
has the relation kry:writes to another system object 
12 We represent objects with different colors: orange for processes, purple for ﬁles, 
blue for sockets, and transparent-dotted circles for inferred system object types. 
13 Note that we deﬁne preﬁx “: ”f o r an instance and “kry: ”f o r Krystal ontology. We 
omit it in ﬁgures for simplicity. 
Fig. 3. RDFS & OWL reasoning for vertice/edge inference. 12 
Fig. 4. rdfs7 ( rdfs:subPropertyOf ) inference example. 
:/home/admin/clean , since in the ontology we deﬁne kry:writes 
as owl:ObjectProperty with an rdfs:domain of kry:Process . 
Consequently, based on rdfs2 rule deﬁnition, it will be automat- 
ically inferred that :Firefox ∈ kry:Process . The system object 
:/home/admin/clean is another example. Since kry:writes has 
rdfs:range of kry:File , based on the rdfs3 rule deﬁnition, it will 
be deduced that :/home/admin/clean ∈ kry:File . This class type 
inference is useful for, e.g., formulating semantic graph queries 
to detect attack patterns based on the system object type and 
their relations. We discuss the query processes in more detail in 
Section 6 . 
rdfs7 This rule is used to generalize relations based on prop- 
erty hierarchies identiﬁed by rdfs:subPropertyOf . In the exam- 
ple in Fig. 4 , for instance, :Firefox has the relation kry:writes 
to :/home/admin/clean , and in the ontology, kry:writes is a sub- 
property of the more generic property kry:provRel , which repre- 
sents provenance relationships. 
Based on the rdfs7 rule, kry:provRel will be automatically in- 
ferred between objects that have a more speciﬁc relation; this 
creates provenance links for all system object relationships (e.g., 
from the :Firefox process to the :/home/admin/clean ﬁle to the 
:Clean process etc.). This is helpful to identify information ﬂows, 
track causality of events, and reconstruct attack graph. We discuss 
the advantage of having explicit provenance relations (e.g., during 
backward-forward analysis for attack graph reconstruction) further 
in Section 6.3 . 
owl:InverseOf Finally, a reasoning technique that we use in our 
ontology is property inversion, identiﬁed by owl:InverseOf , which 
creates relations between system objects in both directions. For in- 
stance, as depicted in Fig. 3 , :Firefox has a relation kry:writes 
to :/home/admin/clean and in the ontology, kry:writes is deﬁned 
as owl:inverseOf to kry:isWrittenBy . Based on the owl:inverseOf 
rule, it will be automatically inferred that :/home/admin/clean also 
has a relation kry:isWrittenBy to :Firefox . The same holds for 
property kry:executes , since it has the relation owl:inverseOf to 
kry:isExecutedBy in the ontology. 
6. Solution architecture 
In this section we present KRYSTAL , a modular framework for 
tactical attack discovery in audit data. The proposed framework in- 
6 

===== Page 006 =====
K. Kurniawan, A. Ekelhart, E. Kiesling et al. Computers & Security 121 (2022) 102828 
Fig. 5. Krystal Framework Architecture. 
Listing 1. Excerpt of an RDF-based provenance graph generated from a log event. 
tegrates a variety of attack discovery mechanisms and takes advan- 
tage of its semantic model to include internal and external knowl- 
edge in the analysis. Fig. 5 gives an overview of the KRYSTAL attack 
discovery framework which consists of three main parts, i.e., (i) 
provenance graph building, (ii) threat detection and alerting, and 
(iii) attack graph and scenario reconstruction. 
Security analysis is typically conducted either online or oﬄine . 
Online refers to an analysis performed in a running system in 
(near) real-time, whereas oﬄine refers to analysis over collected 
data. These two modes have a different purpose (monitoring vs 
forensics), but they can complement each other in hybrid settings 
( Marz and Warren, 2015 ). 
KRYSTAL works in an online mode in that it imports each 
log event in sequence from potentially heterogeneous hosts (e.g., 
Linux, Windows, FreeBSD). The Provenance Graph Building mod- 
ule then generates an RDF-based provenance graph, taking advan- 
tage of the well-deﬁned ontology and enabling enrichment with
