15 System objects with integrity scores in the interval [0 . 0 − 0 . 5 | are considered 
suspicious and scores in the interval [0 . 5 − 1 . 0] are considered benign. 
16 SPARQL uses DELETE and INSERT to perform update operations on triple(s); 
cf. https://www.w3.org/TR/sparql11-update/ 
Listing 4. Attenuation rule for a benign write propagation. 
viate this issue by considering objects imperfect intermediaries for 
propagating malicious behavior through a benign process. In the 
previous example (cf. Fig. 6 ), for instance, the low integrity process 
p 1 writes a ﬁle f 1 , lowering its integrity. To avoid excessive propa- 
gation to other objects from there, the integrity and conﬁdentiality 
tags of a benign subject get attenuated before they propagate to 
another benign object. This can be achieved by applying an addi- 
tive factor af to the original tag value. 
Tag decay is based on the assumption that in case a benign 
subject gets compromised and becomes suspicious, it will do so 
soon after consuming a suspicious input (e.g., read low integrity 
ﬁle) ( Hossain et al., 2020 ). Consequently, this technique gradually 
lifts the score of the low integrity subject and limits benign ob- 
jects from being propagated and ﬂagged as suspicious, particularly 
for long-running processes. 
Listing 4 illustrates how the KRYSTAL framework enables declar- 
ative deﬁnitions of such rules using SPARQL queries. It shows an 
example of an attenuation rule for a benign write propagation that 
checks for a < process > that :writes a conﬁdential < file > . 
The rule gradually increments the conﬁdentiality tag ( :confTag ) 
value ( ?sct ) of processes. 
Provenance-Based Alerting Provenance-based alerting policies 
detect attacks based on the simultaneous fulﬁllment of sev- 
eral conditions in the provenance graph. These conditions (cf. 
Hossain et al., 2020 ) take data integrity tags as well as informa- 
tion associated with nodes (e.g., permissions, users) into account. 
For example, a suspicious ﬁle execution can be detected under the 
following alert policy: 
• a ﬁle f is executed by a process p , 
• f has a low integrity tag value ( < 0.5) and p is benign (integrity 
> = 0.5). 
The KRYSTAL framework facilitates provenance-based alerting by 
expressing alert policies as SPARQL queries and matching them 
against the provenance log graph. Listing 5 provides an exam- 
ple of an alerting policy for suspicious ﬁle execution. The query 
matches a ﬁle ( ?file ) with a low integrity value that has been 
executed by a benign process. Speciﬁcally, ﬁles with a tag value 
8 

===== Page 008 =====
K. Kurniawan, A. Ekelhart, E. Kiesling et al. Computers & Security 121 (2022) 102828 
Fig. 7. Signature/rule-based threat detection example using the translated Sigma -rule query. 
Listing 5. Alerting policy represented as SPARQL query. 
below 0.5 are considered low integrity and the respective triple 
?file :isExecutedBy ?process ) will be marked with the 
detected rule. 17 
Signature/Rule-based Threat Detection We complement the 
provenance-based mechanisms with a signature/rule-based detec- 
tion approach that utilizes IoC deﬁnitions to identify known at- 
tacks in log events. This illustrates that the uniform KG representa- 
tion facilitates the combination of a variety of approaches by using 
a common declarative query language. 
Signatures are an established and effective approach in de- 
tecting known attack patterns, but maintaining the set of rules 
and signatures can be labour-intensive ( Li et al., 2021 ). To tackle 
this problem, KRYSTAL leverages Sigma 18 –a n open, shareable, 
community-driven and generic rule format for threat detection in 
logs. 
Figure 7 part (1) shows an example of signature/rule-based 
threat detection deﬁned in Sigma . 19 Each Sigma -rule is written 
in YAML 20 and deﬁnes the detection rule and its metadata ( ti- 
tle, id, date, author, log-source etc.). A key beneﬁt of these rules 
is that the tags metadata links rules to speciﬁc TTPs from MITRE 
ATT&CK. For example, attack.t1204.002 corresponds to the tech- 
nique T1204.002 21 ( User Execution: Malicious File ). As per November 
2021 22 , Sigma contains more than 1497 rules/signatures for differ- 
ent log sources (e.g., application, network, web logs) and platforms 
(e.g., Linux & Windows). 
17 We used the SPARQL CONSTRUCT syntax to generate new triples and link the 
detected alert to the respective rule. 
18 https://github.com/SigmaHQ/sigma 
19 https://github.com/SigmaHQ/sigma 
20 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YAML 
21 https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1204/003/ 
22 Last access: 11/26/2021 
Our framework translates these Sigma rule speciﬁcations 23 au- 
tomatically and transforms them into SPARQL query expressions. 
Speciﬁcally, we identiﬁed two search-identiﬁers under the detec- 
tion attribute: (i) lists that contain strings applied to the full log 
message and joined with a logical ’OR’, and (ii) maps that consist 
of key/value pairs, where key is a ﬁeld in the log data and value 
is a string or integer. Lists of maps are joined with a logical “OR”
while all elements of a map are joined with a logical “AND”. 
We express lists as SPARQL ﬁlters with regex matching, while 
maps are represented as triple patterns, i.e. Subject (S), Predicate 
(P), and Object (O). S is a log object, P is a log property i.e., key/ﬁeld 
in the log data and O is the value. Similar to lists , we express 
the key/value pair matching using regex ﬁlters in SPARQL. Fur- 
thermore, we also map and transform the rule metadata into RDF. 
Figure 7 part (2) shows an example translation of a Sigma rule into 
SPARQL and RDF. 
The translated Sigma rules are executed against the provenance 
graph to detect potential attacks/threats in the Threat Detection and 
Alerting module of our framework. As we can see in Fig. 7 part (3), 
we detect an alert called “Program Executions in Suspicious Folder ”
in the provenance graph since the execution of the /tmp/vUgefal 
process is located in the /tmp/ folder as deﬁned in the Sigma rule. 
Subsequently, the generated alert will be linked automatically to 
the T1204.002 ( User Execution: Malicious File ) technique from the 
ATT&CK knowledge graph ( Kurniawan et al., 2021 ) in the back- 
ground knowledge (cf. Fig. 7 part (4)). We explain this linking 
mechanism further in Section 6.3 . 
6.3. Attack graph reconstruction 
The next important step once the provenance graph has been 
constructed and alerts have been raised is to understand how the 
alerts are connected and to reconstruct potential attack steps. To 
this end, we construct an attack graph and the attack scenario 
out of the provenance graph through (i) Backward-Forward Chain- 
ing and (ii) Graph Querying . 
Backward-Forward Chaining Backward-Forward Chaining is 
used to ﬁrst identify the potential root cause of an attack and then 
reconstruct the overall attack steps. As provenance-based alerting 
may produce a lot of alerts, we need to prioritize them and iden- 
tify potential root cause alerts of an attack. This can be done by 
assigning an alert score during backward searching , i.e., increment- 
ing alert scores of each predecessor alert on a path. 
23 https://github.com/SigmaHQ/sigma/wiki/Speciﬁcation 
9 

===== Page 009 =====
K. Kurniawan, A. Ekelhart, E. Kiesling et al. Computers & Security 121 (2022) 102828 
Listing 6. Backward searching expressed as SPARQL query. 
Listing 7. Forward chaining mechanism expressed as SPARQL query. 
For this search, we leverage Property Paths 24 , a SPARQL feature 
that allows us to ﬁnd routes between nodes in the RDF provenance 
graph. Recall that we used rdfs7 inference to automatically gener- 
ate an upper-level relation :provRel between system objects. 
As shown in Listing 6 , the backward search query consists of 
a triple pattern [ ?currentAlert ∧ :provRel ∗ ?s ], in which 
∧ . ∗ represents the property path that ﬁnds all possible back- 
ward connections from a node ?currentAlert to a node ?s 
via the relation property :provRel , where ?s is classiﬁed as 
part of another alert. We represent this condition as an RDF-star 25 
statement, i.e., [ << ?s ?p ?o >> rule:hasDetectedRule 
?rule ]. 
Next, we iteratively update the alert scores for each prede- 
cessor alert (+1). After scoring all alerts, we can construct attack 
sequences, starting with the alerts with the highest values and 
performing forward chaining to construct attack scenario graphs. 
We use the same technique as we did for backward chaining, 
i.e., property paths to ﬁnd forward routes connected to the de- 
ﬁned starting nodes. Listing 7 shows the generic SPARQL query 
to construct an attack scenario from the provenance graph. From 
the ?startingNode , it ﬁnds possible routes and visits connected 
nodes via the :provRel relation. A threshold deﬁnes which nodes 
will be connected, e.g., only low integrity nodes with an integrity 
tag lower than 0.5. 
Graph Querying Graph querying can detect attack behavior in a 
provenance graph based on attack patterns. The graph query pat- 
terns can be constructed from observed behavior or existing in- 
formation in published CTI, incident reports, public malware doc- 
umentation, etc. Based on that, the patterns can be constructed 
manually or –p o t e n t i a l l y –a l s o through automated extraction 
methods such as AttacKG ( King and Chen, 2003b ). 
Figure 8 visualizes a graph query example. A subset of the 
graph (red box) represents an observed attack pattern inside the 
provenance graph. Unlike previous work ( Gao et al., 2018a; 2018b; 
Milajerdi et al., 2019a ) that use custom domain-speciﬁc languages 
to perform graph querying, KRYSTAL provides a uniform graph 
querying mechanism with a high expressivity through SPARQL. Fur- 
thermore, it also supports linking to other datasets. 
To formulate graph patterns in SPARQL 26 , we can deﬁne sys- 
tem object types as nodes (i.e., via Classes ) and their interac- 
tions as relation properties (i.e., via Object Properties ). The formu- 
lated graph queries can be executed against the provenance graphs 
24 https://www.w3.org/TR/sparql11-query/#propertypaths 
25 https://w3c.github.io/rdf- star/cg- spec/editors _ draft.html 
26 Graph pattern that identiﬁes a speciﬁc known attack pattern; deﬁned based on 
the DARPA Transparent Computing TA5.1 Ground Truth Report ( DAR, 2021 ). 
Fig. 8. Graph query alignment example: Graph query (red box) is aligned over the 
provenance graph to detect potential attack patterns. The constructed attack graph 
below represents a detected pattern. (For interpretation of the references to colour 
in this ﬁgure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.) 
Listing 8. SPARQL graph query 26 for Fig. 8 . 
to match potential attack patterns. Listing 8 27 depicts an exam- 
ple graph query visualized in Fig. 8 . It detects a potential attack 
where a browser receives a connection from a socket ( ?socket 
:isReceivedBy ?browser ). The fact that ?browser is of 
type :Browser is established in the background knowledge (i.e. 
< http://w3id.org/sepses/..knowledge > ). The SPARQL 
query federation mechanism is used to include the background 
knowledge in the query ( SERVICE syntax). 
Subsequently, the browser creates a ﬁle in the local system 
(deﬁned by ?browser :writes ?file1 ). This ﬁle is then exe- 
27 Note that the automatic construction of graph patterns from existing resources 
is out of scope for this paper. 
10 

===== Page 010 =====
K. Kurniawan, A. Ekelhart, E. Kiesling et al. Computers & Security 121 (2022) 102828 
Fig. 9. Background linking example, to automatically link alerts detected by the 
threat detection module to external background knowledge (e.g. ATT&CK-KG). 
cuted as a new process ( :file1 :isExecutedBy :process2 ) 
and reads another conﬁdential ﬁle ( ?file1 :reads ?file2 ). 
Next, the process sends the conﬁdential ﬁle to another socket 
( process :sends ?socket2 ). We can use the FILTER syntax 
(i.e. FILTER (?fit < 0.5) ) to focus on conﬁdential ﬁles (i.e., 
with a tag value ( ?file2 rule:confTag ?fit ) lower than 
0.5). 28 
To reconstruct the resulting attack graph, we used SPARQL 
CONSTRUCT queries to generate new triples in RDF. The generated 
attack graph can be shared and reused – e.g., for further threat 
hunting activities and analysis. 
6.4. Contextualization & linking 
Security-related events are typically highly context-speciﬁc and 
hence, their interpretation requires extensive background knowl- 
edge ( Ekelhart et al., 2018 ). Such knowledge plays an important 
role in our approach and can enrich and provide additional infor- 
mation – e.g., to identify high-level attack steps in the generated 
attack graph. 
In particular, we link results to our previously developed SEPSES 
CSKG ( Kiesling et al., 2019 ), a continuously updated cybersecu- 
rity knowledge graph that integrates data from various publicly 
available sources, including CAPEC, CPE, CVE, CVSS, and CWE. Fur- 
thermore, we extend the SEPSES CSKG with attack patterns from 
MITRE ATT&CK that consist of 665 attack techniques and 14 attack 
tactics (ATT&CK-KG Kurniawan et al., 2021 ). 
Figure 9 illustrates this background knowledge link- 
ing. The example relation :isExecutedBy between a ﬁle 
:/home/admin/clean and a process :Clean can be linked to 
attack techniques and tactics in the background knowledge: in this 
case, the technique “exploitation for client execution ”, identiﬁed by 
node :T1203 ) from the MITRE ATT&CK matrix 29 ( Kurniawan et al., 
2021 ). Since node :T1203 also provides links to additional infor- 
mation (tactics, mitigations, etc.), we can use this node to abstract 
from concrete indicators to a higher-level conceptualization of 
attacks and their techniques, tactics, procedures. 
Listing 9 shows an excerpt of background linking dur- 
ing forward chaining via SPARQL query federation. We mod- 
iﬁed the query from Listing 7 and introduced additional 
28 Recall that semantic reasoning infers the type (i.e. Class ) of system objects auto- 
matically based on their relations (i.e., rdfs2 & rdfs3 ), hence, we can deﬁne attack 
patterns based on their relations only. 
29 https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1203/ 
Listing 9. Contextualization and linking through semantic query federation 
(SPARQL Service). 
Fig. 10. Implementation Setup. 
query patterns such as SERVICE followed by an endpoint e.g. 
http://w3id.org/sepses/repositories/knowledge which references exter- 
nal background knowledge. This links a detected rule with a cor- 
responding attack technique in the background knowledge (iden- 
tiﬁed by the triple pattern ?r rule:hasAttackTechnique 
?tech ). Finally, we also link the identiﬁed technique to a tactic 
(identiﬁed by ?tech at:accomplishesTactic ?tt ). This il- 
lustrates how the SPARQL federation mechanism makes it possible 
to query and link an entity to additional resources, such as mitiga- 
tion techniques, impacts, etc. 
7. Implementation & application scenarios 
In this section, we describe the implementation of our frame- 
work and demonstrate its feasibility in several scenarios. 
7.1. Implementation 
Figure 10 visualizes the implementation architecture of our ap- 
proach. We developed a Java-based log processing tool called the 
KRYSTAL engine 30 that consumes log data from three different log 
sources, i.e., Linux auditd , FreeBSD DTrace 31 , and Windows ETW . 
We used the KRYSTAL Ontology to parse and map log data into 
an RDF-based provenance graph. By means of the Jena 32 reason- 
ing engine, we can infer new knowledge during provenance graph 
building. 
30 https://github.com/sepses/SimpleLogProvenance 
31 https://wiki.freebsd.org/DTrace/ 
32 https://jena.apache.org/documentation/inference/ 
11

===== Page 011 =====
K. Kurniawan, A. Ekelhart, E. Kiesling et al. Computers & Security 121 (2022) 102828 
Table 3 
Attack Scenarios. 
Scenario 
ID Dataset ID OS Platform Scenario Name Scenario description 
1 Cadets I FreeBSD Nginx 
backdoor 
Nginx backdoor w/ Drakon in-memory . An attacker sent a malformed HTTP request to a 
vulnerable Nginx web server that leads to several malicious ﬁle creations and process 
executions in the local system ( Figure 11 ). 
2 Cadets I FreeBSD Nginx 
backdoor 
Nginx backdoor w/ Drakon in-memory . A vulnerable Nginx webserver downloads several 
malicious ﬁles after being exploited by a malformed HTTP request ( Figure 12 ). 
3 Cadets II FreeBSD Nginx 
backdoor 
Nginx backdoor w/ Drakon in-memory . Similar to Scenario 3, the vulnerable Nginx webserver 
was successfully exploited by an attacker. It downloads a payload ﬁle which leads to 
sensitive information leaking ( Figure 13 ). 
4 Theia Ubuntu 
12.04 
Firefox 
backdoor 
Firefox backdoor w/ Drakon in-memory . Firefox process gets exploited by a malicious website 
to download and execute ﬁles to steal sensitive information from users ( Figure 11 ). 
5 Five 
Direction 
Windows 
10 
Firefox 
backdoor 
Firefox backdoor w/ Drakon in-memory . Firefox process gets exploited via a drakor memory 
payload after browsing a malicious website ( Figure 15 ). 
Furthermore, we extended the existing SEPSES Cybersecurity 
Knowledge Graph ( Kiesling et al., 2019 ) by including attack tech- 
niques and tactics from MITRE ATT&CK and incorporate it as exter- 
nal background knowledge. Furthermore, we translate existing IoC 
Sigma ( Roth and Patzke, 2021 ) rules into SPARQL queries. 
To construct attack graphs (through backward-forward chaining 
and graph querying ), link internal and external background knowl- 
edge (via SPARQL query federation), as well as to visualize the re- 
sulting attack graphs, we use the in-memory Jena TDB 33 and the 
Stardog Enterprise Knowledge Graph platform . 34 
7.2. Application scenarios 
In the following application scenarios, we demonstrate how 
the KRYSTAL framework automatically constructs compact attack 
graphs, links and contextualizes them with background knowledge, 
and ﬁnally maps them to high-level attack steps via TTPs deﬁned 
in MITRE ATT&CK. 
We use a DARPA dataset ( DAR, 2021 ) that contains attack sce- 
narios carried out by a red team as part of the DARPA Transpar- 
ent Computing (TC) program. An overview of the attack scenarios 
can be found in Table 3 . Due to space limitation, we only explain 
one scenario in this section (Scenario 1), and include the remaining 
scenarios in the appendix. Scenario 1 - Nginx backdoor w/ Drakon 
in-memory This attack scenario has been used as motivation exam- 
ple in Section 1 . As shown in Fig. 11 , our system detected a num- 
ber of alerts including ﬁle creation, change permission, ﬁle execu- 
tion, and data-leak . After performing backward and forward chain- 
ing, we successfully constructed the attack graph of this scenario. 
Furthermore, we performed query federation during forward chain- 
ing to include external background knowledge. Our query yields 
an attack graph that automatically links the detected alerts to the 
MITRE ATT&CK techniques and tactics. Finally, we can see the re- 
constructed attack graph together with its kill-chain phases such 
as Reconnaissance, Defense Evasion, Execution and Exﬁltration . 
8. Evaluation 
In this section, we evaluate the KRYSTAL framework through a 
set of experiments and discuss the results. 
8.1. Experimental setup 
We performed the experiments on two machines: (i) an Ubuntu 
18.04 Server (Intel 2.59 GHz vCPU, 32 GB RAM) was used for 
provenance graph building and evaluation of threat detection and 
alerting techniques. (ii) a Windows 10 (Intel 2.90 GHz vCPU, 16 GB 
33 https://jena.apache.org/documentation/tdb/ 
34 https://www.stardog.com/platform/ 
RAM) machine was used for scenario reconstruction, graph query- 
ing and attack graph visualization using Stardog Studio . 35 
Dataset Overview For the evaluation, we used well-established 
datasets from red vs. blue team adversarial engagements produced 
as part of the third Transparent Computing (TC) program organized 
by DARPA ( DAR, 2021 ). The datasets are organized into ﬁve cat- 
egories, namely Cadets, Trace, Theia, FiveDirections and ClearScope . 
Each dataset includes log events generated during the engage- 
ments on a speciﬁc targeted host and platform. For example, Cadets 
represents dtrace 36 log data from FreeBSD OS, Trace and Theia have 
been generated from auditd 37 Ubuntu log data, and FiveDirection 
contains ETW 38 log data from Microsoft Windows and ClearScope 
collected from Android logs. In addition, a description of attack 
steps is available as ground truth. Table 4 summarizes the ﬁve at- 
tack scenarios from the Theia (TH), Cadets (CD), and FiveDirection 
(FD) datasets that we evaluated. In total, the scenarios covers more 
than 7 days of log data from three datasets, with more than 53 GB 
of logs in JSON format. 39 
8.2. Experiment results 
We collect the following evaluations metrics in our experi- 
ments: (i) provenance graph size reduction and compression per- 
formance, (ii) run-time performance, (iii) provenance-based alert 
detection, (iv) rule-based alert detection. 
Graph Size Reduction & Compression Performance Table 4 shows 
the evaluation results for provenance graph generation and com- 
pression in the ﬁve scenarios. 
Our system generates RDF-based provenance graphs in RDF 
TURTLE format. 40 Out of the 18.7 GB Theia log dataset, for instance, 
we generated a 280 MB provenance graph (i.e., 66x smaller), the 
set of Cadets datasets (19 GB) resulted in a 400 MB provenance 
graph (i.e., 48x smaller), and out of the Five direction dataset 
(16 GB), we generated a 25 MB provenance graph (i.e., 640x 
smaller). 
The last column of Table 4 shows the compression re- 
sults of the generated provenance graphs for each dataset in 
HDT ( Fernández et al., 2013 ) format. On average, the resulting com- 
pressed provenance graphs are approximately smaller by a factor 
of 22 than the generated provenance graphs in TURTLE format. 
Run-time Performance We evaluate three aspects to measure 
the run-time performance of our approach: (i) Time for generating 
the provenance graphs from the log data, including time for tag- 
propagation, attenuation & decay and provenance-based alerting ; (ii) 
35 https://www.stardog.com/studio/ 
36 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DTrace 
37 https://linux.die.net/man/8/auditd 
38 https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/etw/event-tracing-portal 
39 Note that DARPA published the datasets in both binary and JSON formats, we 
used the JSON data as input in our evaluation. 
40 https://www.w3.org/TR/turtle/ 
12 

===== Page 012 =====
K. Kurniawan, A. Ekelhart, E. Kiesling et al. Computers & Security 121 (2022) 102828 
Fig. 11. Scenario 1 ( Nginx backdoor w/ Drakon in-memory ). This attack begins with a vulnerable Nginx web server hosted on a FreeBSD server that gets exploited by a 
malformed HTTP request. The exploit leads to multiple ﬁle creations on the local system. The attacker successfully creates an executable ﬁle (“/tmp/XIM”), changes the 
permissions and runs it as an elevated process. This process reads a sensitive ﬁle (“/etc/passwd”) and forwards data to an external network ( 53.158.101.118:80 ). 
Table 4 
Graph size reduction & compression. 
Scenario ID Dataset ID Duration (hh:mm) Log data in JSON (GB) Prov. in RDF (MB) Prov. in HDT (MB) 
1,2 CD I 48:59 7 150 7 
3 CD II 90:01 12 250 10 
4 TH 25:33 18.7 280 16 
5 FD 19:27 16 25 0.9 
Table 5 
Scenario graph construction run-time. 
Scenario ID Total Events (M) Prov. Graph Building & Alerting (events/sec) Forward Chaining (sec) Graph Querying (sec) 
1,2 7.8 16.8 K 0.79 0.31 
3 12.9 17.5 K 0.99 0.26 
4 23.4 15.6 K 1.6 0.41 
5 19.3 37.8 K 1.99 0.42 
Time for constructing the scenario graphs via list:forward-chaining ; 
and (iii) Time for generating scenario graphs through graph query- 
ing . 
We repeated each experiment ﬁve times and present average
