0 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000
Exponential theoretical quantiles
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
5000
6000Sample quantiles
Figure 6: Q-Q Plot comparing theoretical exponential distri-
bution and our data (blue points). The fit is excellent up to
a lifetime of around 4,200 days and then gradually diverges.
We can say it remains a good fit up to a lifetime of around
5,000 days.
This distribution has an average value of 1,501.47 days
and a median (referred to as half-life in nuclear physics) of
ln2·1, 501.47 = 1, 040.74 days. This is the amount of time
required for half of the vulnerabilities to be fixed. Conversely,
63% of vulnerabilities are fixed before the average lifetime of
1,501.47 days. Exponential distributions also provide satisfac-
tory fits for the vulnerability lifetimes of single projects, when
considered in isolation (with small variations). This can also
be observed in the average and median values of Table 3. For
most projects (especially the ones with many data points avail-
able), the median is close to ln2 (~0.69) times the average.
According to our analysis, for all intended purposes of this
paper, the empirical distribution of lifetimes in a project can
be adequately approximated by an exponential distribution.
5.3 Trends over time
To investigate the progression of vulnerability lifetimes over
time, we grouped CVEs by their fixing year (year of their
last fixing commits, as also discussed in Section 2.2) and cal-
culated the average lifetime for each year. Figure 7 shows
how vulnerability lifetimes progressed over the years for the
dataset as a whole, as well as for Firefox, Chromium and
Linux. These were the projects that had enough CVEs (>20)
for each year to confidently assess their lifetime over an ex-
tended period. Specifically, the grey area in the plots covers
the years before the first year when at least 20 CVEs with
fixing commits were available for the project.
Overall (Figure 7a), vulnerability lifetimes show a sign of
increase over the years with some fluctuation. When consid-
ering all CVEs, their average vulnerability lifetime increases
by 42.78 days per year.
Considering the other 3 selected projects in particular, for
Chromium (Figure 7c) and Linux (Figure 7d) we can observe
clear increasing trends, whereas for Firefox (Figure 7b), vul-
nerability lifetimes are stable, even with a slight decreasing
trend. It is interesting to note that although the overall increas-
ing trends for Chromium and Linux are similar, lifetimes for
Chromium can fluctuate significantly over the years, while
the values for Linux fluctuate less. For the other projects that
do not have enough datapoints for year-by-year analysis, we
group CVEs per 2 or more years (for additional figures refer
to the full version of the paper). In total, out of the 11 projects
in our study: 3 (Chromium, Linux, httpd) have a clear and sig-
nificant (ordinary least squares linear fit factor > 0 with 95%
confidence) increasing trend; 4 (Qemu, OpenSSL, Php, Post-
gres) show an increase but with fewer data points available; 4
(Firefox, Wireshark, Tcpdump, FFmpeg) do not exhibit any
particular trend.
Does increasing vulnerability lifetimes mean that code
quality is getting worse over time? We came up with two
possible conflicting explanations for increasing vulnerability
lifetimes. The first is optimistic: we are fixing vulnerabili-
ties faster than we are introducing them, and thus, there are
less new vulnerabilities to find and the average age of those
we are fixing is increasing, as we are “catching up”. As put
forward by Corbet in 2010 [11] regarding the Linux kernel
“[a prominent kernel developer told me that] the bulk of the
holes being disclosed were ancient vulnerabilities which were
being discovered by new static analysis tools. In other words,
we are fixing security problems faster than we are creating
them”. The pessimistic explanation is that we are introducing
vulnerabilities at a similar or even greater rate than we are
fixing them, and that the average age of those that are fixed is
increasing, along with the age of the codebase. The optimistic
explanation would require a gradual change of the shape of
the distribution of lifetimes. As can be seen in Figure 8, the
distribution remains exponential, with gradually increasing
mean over time. Thus, the optimistic explanation is not sup-
ported by the empirical measurements, making the pessimistic
explanation more likely. However, deeper investigation into
the relationship between vulnerability age and code age in
general is required. We present this in the next section.
5.4 Code age
To compute the overall code age of a project at a given point
in time, we employed the following method. For each year X,
we consider the state of the repository on the 1st of July in
that year (half-way point). Subsequently, we “blame” (getting
the point in time a line was last changed) every line in the
repository. We consider the time-span between the last change
and the half-way point to be the regular code age for that line
in year X. To analyze the relation between regular code age
and fixed vulnerable code age (vulnerability lifetime), we
calculate the average code age for each year that we have
vulnerability lifetime data for, and plot the result in Figure 9