How Long Do Vulnerabilities Live in the Code? A Large-Scale Empirical
Measurement Study on FOSS Vulnerability Lifetimes
Nikolaos Alexopoulos, Manuel Brack, Jan Philipp Wagner, Tim Grube and Max Mühlhäuser
Telecooperation Lab, Technical University of Darmstadt, Germany
Abstract
How long do vulnerabilities live in the repositories of large,
evolving projects? Although the question has been identified
as an interesting problem by the software community in on-
line forums, it has not been investigated yet in adequate depth
and scale, since the process of identifying the exact point in
time when a vulnerability was introduced is particularly cum-
bersome. In this paper, we provide an automatic approach
for accurately estimating how long vulnerabilities remain in
the code (their lifetimes). Our method relies on the observa-
tion that while it is difficult to pinpoint the exact point of
introduction for one vulnerability, it is possible to accurately
estimate the average lifetime of a large enough sample of
vulnerabilities, via a heuristic approach.
With our approach, we perform the first large-scale mea-
surement of Free and Open Source Software vulnerability
lifetimes, going beyond approaches estimating lower bounds
prevalent in previous research. We find that the average life-
time of a vulnerability is around 4 years, varying signifi-
cantly between projects (~2 years for Chromium, ~7 years for
OpenSSL). The distribution of lifetimes can be approximately
described by an exponential distribution. There are no statisti-
cally significant differences between the lifetimes of different
vulnerability types when considering specific projects. Vul-
nerabilities are getting older, as the average lifetime of fixed
vulnerabilities in a given year increases over time, influenced
by the overall increase of code age. However, they live less
than non-vulnerable code, with an increasing spread over time
for some projects, suggesting a notion of maturity that can be
considered an indicator of quality. While the introduction of
fuzzers does not significantly reduce the lifetimes of memory-
related vulnerabilities, further research is needed to better
understand and quantify the impact of fuzzers and other tools
on vulnerability lifetimes and on the security of codebases.
1 Introduction
Software flaws that can potentially be exploited by an ad-
versary are referred to as security bugs or vulnerabilities.
Reducing the number of vulnerabilities in software by find-
ing existing ones and avoiding the introduction of new ones
(e.g. by employing secure coding practices or formal verifica-
tion techniques) is one of the primary pursuits of computer
security.
Measurement studies on the different stages of the vul-
nerability lifecycle play an important role in this pursuit, as
they help us better understand the impact of security efforts
and improve software security practices and workflows. The
community has produced a number of such outputs in recent
years [5, 8, 14, 18, 23, 28, 36]. A vulnerability’s lifecycle, or
window of exposure as introduced by Schneier [34], describes
the phases between the introduction of a vulnerability in the
code, and the point in time when all systems affected by that
vulnerability have been patched. There have been several
adaptations of the vulnerability lifecycle concept (e.g. w.r.t.
the number of phases or their ordering and its non-linearity),
but the general concept remains the same, and a simple ver-
sion is shown in Fig 1. The lifecycle of a vulnerability (or
t int t f t d t ﬁx t p 
vuln. introducedvuln. foundvuln. pub. disclosedﬁx availableall hosts patched
time Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Phase 4
Figure 1: Simplified plot of a vulnerability’s lifecycle. Continuous
line shows period of possible exploitation.
alternatively the window of exposure to a vulnerability) be-
gins with its introduction into a product (at time t int). This
first phase (Phase 1) of its lifecycle ends with its discovery
by some party (t f). Phase 2 covers the time period during
which a vulnerability is known to at least one individual (and
there is an associated risk of exploitation depending on their
intentions), but is not publicly disclosed yet. Phase 3 begins
with the public disclosure of the vulnerability (td) and ends