We established that there is no evidence to support that we
are introducing (and consequently fixing) significantly fewer
new vulnerabilities over time. We also made the following
observations: (a) vulnerability lifetimes are on average lower
than regular code age, and (b) for some projects this spread
increases over time.
Observation (a) shows that vulnerability-fixing has a siz-
able benefit in reducing the window of exposure to zero-day
attacks. If this were not the case (if vulnerability lifetimes
were similar or greater than regular code age), one could say
that our vulnerability-finding practices would be totally inef-
fective – fortunately this is not true.
Observation (b), that for some projects vulnerability life-
times, on average, increase slower over time compared to code
age, is more interesting. One explanation could be that we are
(introducing and) fixing an increasingly large number of new
vulnerabilities each year, in addition to a few very old ones.
Figure 8 does not support this explanation, since overall the
distribution of vulnerability lifetimes does not significantly
change and remains exponential, slowly stretching towards
higher means over time. The alternative interpretation would
be that there are parts of code that mature, i.e. we do not find
vulnerabilities affecting them anymore, and apart from these
parts we continue finding a similar ratio of new compared
to old vulnerabilities. Our data support this interpretation.
Overall, this interpretation suggests that we could be slowly
progressing towards a state of relative maturity, where vulner-
ability lifetimes become stable over time and not correlated to
code age, even if the latter is increasing. In this state, the older
parts of the codebase will be hardened, and we will be finding
vulnerabilities introduced in a possibly large, yet bounded,
time period. One could challenge this interpretation with the
argument that vulnerabilities in older parts of the code are
not found because nobody is looking for them. Although new
parts of code may come under additional manual scrutiny, we
do not believe that the vulnerability hunting process is differs
drastically between old and even-older parts of the code. It
would be beneficial to repeat the measurement some years
from now, in order to see whether the predicted behavior of
a stop to the constant increase of vulnerability lifetimes will
hold for the projects under question.
Overall, even though we may not be decreasing the
number of vulnerabilities in a given codebase, there
are indications that we could be making progress to-
wards achieving a notion of maturity, where vulnera-
bilities will be mostly absent from code older than a
specific point in the past.
Are vulnerabilities (in a given project) equal? When test-
ing for differences in vulnerability lifetimes for all CVEs (all
projects), we found that there exist statistically significant dif-
ferences, even when considering our custom categories. This
result is in line with the observations of Li and Paxson [18].
They stopped their investigation at this point, however our
dataset allowed us to explore further and investigate whether
the relative frequency of different vulnerability types in dif-
ferent projects is the cause of the observation above. Indeed,
we found no statistically significant evidence supporting a re-
lationship between the lifetime of a vulnerability and its type,
within a project. For example, Category 3 has the highest
average lifetime in Table 4 (1,760 days for all CVEs) but by
far the lowest in Table 8 (752 days for Firefox). We attribute
differences observed in previous studies to differences in the
ratios of different types in different projects. Therefore, the
notion that some vulnerability categories are in general harder
to find than others (e.g. memory bugs are harder to find than
input validation bugs), is not supported by our findings.
Different vulnerability categories seem to be equally
difficult to find (at least post release); overall, our
results are consistent with the view that all vulnerabil-
ities in a project are equal, and their order of discovery
is random.
Can we compare? Meaningful quantitative security metrics
are notoriously difficult to arrive at [38]. Metrics that can
meaningfully be used to compare different products/projects
are especially rare. Simply comparing vulnerability lifetimes
or trends in lifetimes between projects is not suitable, as they
can be heavily correlated to regular code age.
We put forward the hypothesis that the following two
metrics may be helpful for comparative studies: (a)
the spread between overall code age and vulnerability
lifetime, or alternatively the ratio between average
vulnerability lifetime and code age; (b) the rate of
change (increase or decrease) of the spread between
overall code age and vulnerability lifetime.
Further investigation of these metrics as comparison instru-
ments is a very interesting avenue for future research.
How much fuzzing is enough? Traditionally, security re-
searchers tend to focus on new, relatively less tested parts
of the code to test for vulnerabilities. Recently, Zhu and
Böhme [42] came to the conclusion that with limited re-
sources, fuzzing code that has recently changed is the best
vulnerability discovery strategy. Our results support this state-
ment to an extent, in the sense that the distribution of vulner-
ability lifetimes can be described by a decreasing function
(exponential – see Figure 5). However, a significant number
of vulnerabilities have large lifetimes and fuzzers keep dis-
covering very old vulnerabilities for years (see Section 5.6).
Taking into account the well-known asymmetries of computer
security, finding these vulnerabilities that potentially impact
many legacy systems, is also important. Furthermore, further