focused research is required in order to better understand the
impact of fuzzing in improving the security of codebases and
its impact on vulnerability lifetimes.
Overall, fuzzing old code seems to still produce re-
sults even for “extensively tested” targets. Further
research is needed to understand and quantify the im-
pact of fuzzing and its relation to lifetimes.
7 Threats to validity
Dataset. The data in vulnerability databases often experience
bias from several sources [7].
– Completeness. Although the NVD is one of the largest col-
lections of software vulnerabilities, it can not be considered
complete, since many vulnerabilities may never get a CVE.
Further research is required to investigate the lifetime of those
vulnerabilities. Furthermore, although we strove to map as
many CVEs to their fixing commits as possible, our approach
is not able to identify a fixing commit for every single CVE
affecting a program. However, the dataset we gathered is big
and complete enough to be representative, and we do not
expect our results on vulnerability lifetimes and their charac-
teristics to be significantly influenced by some missing data
points.
– Correctness. Entries in the NVD are manually curated and
analyzed, but might still include errors. Additionally, mistakes
in the commit message when including the bug ID or a CVE-
ID can lead to incorrect mappings. We corrected these errors
during our data cleaning process, however, some errors may
have evaded detection. We expect these to be few and to not
affect our general observations.
– Generalization. Although we do not claim validity of our
results for other projects, apart from the 11 we included in
our dataset, we believe that the selected projects are a large
representative sample and the insights gained from our results
are, to an extent, of general significance.
Independence. Some of our arguments in the Results section
rely on the implied assumption that vulnerability lifetimes
are independent. It has been shown that some vulnerability
discovery events can be dependent [29], either due to a new
class of vulnerabilities being discovered, a new tool being
made available, or a new area of code coming under scrutiny.
These dependencies manifest themselves as small bursts in
the vulnerability discovery rate and are a particular problem
to vulnerability discovery models that try to model the time
between discoveries. It is difficult to imagine (let alone test)
how such dependencies would affect the lifetimes of vulner-
abilities, especially in a large and diverse dataset like ours.
Also, our empirical results do not indicate the existence of any
kind of dependency regarding vulnerability lifetimes. There-
fore, we consider the independence of vulnerability lifetimes
to be a reasonable assumption. Some points in the Discus-
sion section also imply an assumption of independence of
discovery events. Again, small bursts of discoveries may exist
due to dependent discoveries, however they do not affect the
arguments being made, which describe large-scale behaviors.
Heuristic error. Our main findings are consistent over dif-
ferent projects and over time. Therefore, we do not believe
the error of our lifetime-estimation heuristic (as discussed in
Section 4.2) to affect their validity.
8 Conclusion
In this paper we studied the lifetimes of vulnerabilities. A
vulnerability’s lifetime is the amount of time it remains in
the codebase of a software project before it is discovered and
fixed. Via a rigorous process we showed that it is possible to
accurately compute the metric (lifetime) automatically when
enough data points are available, via a heuristic code analysis
technique. Our technique is of general relevance and can be
used to study lifetimes of bugs and vulnerabilities for a wide
variety of software. We also showed that measurements using
the metric can have theoretical and practical implications.
Thus, we believe vulnerability lifetime to be a promising
software security metric.
Further research is required to better understand how the
metric can be used to quantify the impact of automated tools
on the security of codebases, as well as how vulnerabilities
not assigned CVEs affect the results of the measurement.
Moreover, further investigation of the theoretical implications
of the metric w.r.t. vulnerability discovery models and soft-
ware reliability models in general, could provide interesting
insights.
Acknowledgments
We would like to thank our shepherd Zhiyun Qian and the
anonymous reviewers for helping us significantly improve the
paper. This work has been co-funded by the German Federal
Ministry of Education and Research and the Hessen State
Ministry for Higher Education, Research and the Arts within
their joint support of the National Research Center for Applied
Cybersecurity ATHENE.
References
[1] Nikolaos Alexopoulos, Sheikh Mahbub Habib, Steffen
Schulz, and Max Mühlhäuser. The tip of the iceberg:
On the merits of finding security bugs. ACM Trans. Priv.
Secur., 24(1), September 2020.
[2] Omar H. Alhazmi and Yashwant K. Malaiya. Modeling
the vulnerability discovery process. In 16th Interna-
tional Symposium on Software Reliability Engineering
(ISSRE 2005), 8-11 November 2005, Chicago, IL, USA,
pages 129–138. IEEE Computer Society, 2005.