3.2 Included projects
For our analysis, we want a large representative sample of
FOSS projects that are compatible with our ground truth
datasets and provide enough data points for our analysis. As
starting point, we established the following requirements for
software projects to be included:
(a) The project should be free and/or open source with trans-
parent and consistent security workflows. In fact, all projects
that were included at the end of this process are distributed
under Debian11 as free software. Nonetheless, they are widely
used in other operating systems and make up a good represen-
tation of FOSS in general.
(b) The project should have a considerable number of reported
CVEs. In order to allow a thorough analysis of all projects,
we limited ourselves to those with at least 100 CVEs to en-
sure meaningful results (we expect statistical arguments to be
possible). This condition forced us to discard many projects
we considered interesting, simply because they did not have
enough data available in the National Vulnerability Database
(NVD).
(c) The project should be mainly written in C or C++. Intu-
ition suggests that our methodology would provide results of
similar quality for other programming languages with similar
syntax and semantics, such as Java. However, we did not have
enough ground truth data available to empirically prove this
hypothesis for other programming languages, and therefore
focus on C/C++.
(d) Lastly, we require a significant number of a project’s CVEs
to be linkable to a fixing commit. We had to discard some
projects because it was not possible to consistently identify
the fixing commit(s) for the project’s CVEs.
In the end we created a dataset consisting of 11 different
projects of various sizes, ages and areas of application. All
included projects and their respective numbers of CVEs and
corresponding fixing commits are listed in Table 1. We thor-
oughly investigated commit messages, bug tracking systems
and NVD references to ensure the highest possible – to the
best of our efforts – yield of vulnerability mappings. A general
description of the process follows in the next section.
3.3 Linking CVEs to their fixing commits
Our data collection process is based on information from the
NVD [25]. The NVD is manually curated and represents one
of the largest collections of software vulnerabilities. Conse-
quently, it is frequently used in research on software security,
having generated valuable insights on various topics. At the
same time, the NVD has some well-known pitfalls, that the
process described below tries to mitigate. This issue is fur-
ther discussed in Section 7. For our work, we relied on the
CVE-search tool [13] to obtain a local copy of the NVD for
querying and obtaining data.
11https://www.debian.org/
For our analysis of vulnerability lifetimes, we needed to
link a vulnerability entry in the NVD to one or multiple fixing
commits resolving the underlying flaw. In order to create as
large a dataset as we could for our evaluation, we applied and
combined four different approaches.
1. CVE-ID in Commit Message. Some fixing commits men-
tion the related CVE-ID in the commit message, establishing
a link between CVE and fixing commit. We investigated all
these mappings using a combination of automated scripts and
manual effort. First, we deemed correct all mappings that
mention the CVE-ID in a project-specific syntax (e.g Bug-Id:
CVE-2017-9992) that clearly denotes a matching CVE. We
manually analyzed the remaining 176 mappings, and removed
17 unjustified mappings, corrected 2, and added 212.
2. Commit in NVD Reference. Entries in the NVD often
contain references to third party websites that include security
advisories, bug tracking systems, and also links to commits
in a project’s version control system. In the cases where a
reference to a commit in the respective repository was in-
cluded, we considered this commit to be a fixing commit. We
manually validated the mappings obtained using this method
by investigating a random subset of 50 samples. We found
that all of the sampled commits were indeed fixes for the re-
spective CVEs.
3. Common Bug ID. Many software vendors use dedicated
bug tracking systems in their development process. Each com-
mit corresponds to a bug identifier that is denoted in the com-
mit message using a particular syntax. Thus, most commits
can be linked to a certain bug ID. NVD entries, on the other
hand, may contain a link to the vendor’s online bug tracking
system in their references. Using regular expressions, the bug
ID can be extracted from such links and then matched to corre-
sponding commits. We assume that the developers mentioned
the correct bug identifiers in their commit messages and the
curators of the NVD reference the correct bugs as well. We
recognize that this is a potential threat to the correctness of
these mappings (see Section 7), but are confident the errors
are negligible.
4. Third party mappings. As the information provided by
linking vulnerabilities and fixing commits is useful for var-
ious purposes, fellow researchers and security experts have
collected similar data for some software projects. In addition
to our own analysis, we incorporated this data, especially in
cases where acquiring the information in an automated fash-
ion proved particularly difficult. We relied on three different
third party mappings: (a) data provided by the Linux Kernel
CVEs project [19], (b) mappings that were manually curated
by Piantadosi et al. [32], (c) information from the Debian
Security Tracker [12]. We are confident in the quality of data
obtained from these parties, as they are either curated from
reliable sources or relied on a data collection methodology
similar to ours.
12There were two occasions where a fix belonged to multiple CVEs as
indicated in the commit message