committed within a day6. Another Linux kernel vulnerability
with CVE-2012-2119, this time a buffer overflow, had a patch
spanning 5 short fixing commits modifying the same file, all
committed on the same day7.
Defining a lifetime metric comes down to explicitly defin-
ing the start and end points of the time measurement.
– Which of the potentially multiple VCCs/fixing commits
should we consider as a start/end point? Considering the
causes for multiple commits either introducing or fixing a vul-
nerability, we decide to use the first of the VCCs as the start
of the time measurement and the last of the fixing commits as
the end. For cases like the first example concerning multiple
sub-vulnerabilities described in one CVE, we therefore mea-
sure the lifetime of the oldest one. For re-introduction cases,
like the one in the second example, we measure the total life-
time. In those cases, this whole period is most often a period
of risk for systems running “stable” software versions (only
applying critical patches), since the premature fix is often not
designated as a security issue, and therefore not considered a
critical patch.
– Which timestamp to use? Most projects use a “main”
branch of development (traditionally master in git) to track
their code, and have a public mirror of this repository so that
users can download the most recent versions of the code 8.
Changes are then developed, discussed, and tested in private
copies of the repository. When a change is ready to make it to
the main branch, it is either (a) prepared as a (typically short)
series of commits based on a recent reference commit and
then merged into the main branch, or (b) directly committed to
the main branch. For the purpose of measuring the lifetime of
a vulnerability as a part of its window of exposure, we would
want to measure the time between the VCC and the fix being
widely available to users (including, e.g. maintainers of soft-
ware distributions). Following this argumentation, we would
use the time a VCC or a fixing commit was merged into the
main branch as its timestamp, rather than its “commit times-
tamp” (because the change may potentially be kept private
until merging). This was indeed our first approach. However,
from our empirical results we came to the conclusion that
this adds unnecessary complexity to both the definition and
the computation of the metric. The time between the commit
and its merging into the main branch is usually very short
(average of ∼20 days) in comparison to the lifetime of a vul-
nerability (average in years). This is due to the fact that the
usual practice after a fix is prepared and tested, is to download
the most recent version of the code from the main branch
of development and create a patch against this version. Fur-
thermore, more complexity in the definition would have been
6more information at https://www.spinics.net/lists/linux-nfs/
msg63334.html.
7more information at https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/
+source/linux/+bug/987566.
8see https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/
torvalds/linux.git for Linux.
needed to account for fixes that were never merged into the
main branch because the vulnerability they addressed only
affected older versions of the software (and were therefore
merged into e.g. a stable branch). Considering the above, we
backtracked and decided to use the commit timestamp, which
is readily available in the metadata of a commit in all three
popular version control systems (git, SVN, mercurial).
3 Dataset creation
In this section we describe the data collection and cleaning
process. This process allowed us to create the largest and
most complete, to the best of our knowledge, datasets of (a)
mappings between a CVE and its VCC(s), and (b) mappings
between a CVE and its fixing commit(s). We therefore con-
sider the dataset to be a valuable contribution in itself and
will make it publicly available for other researchers to use9.
3.1 Linking CVEs to their VCCs
An integral part of our dataset are mappings from CVEs to
their VCCs to create a “ground truth” dataset. These map-
pings come from manually curated datasets of researchers
and project maintainers and enable us to evaluate and validate
methods that automatically estimate lifetimes of vulnerabili-
ties for which no such ground truth data are available.
The largest source we identified for such mappings, is the
Ubuntu CVE Tracker [6]. In this project, the Ubuntu Security
Team gathers and curates several data points on vulnerabilities
affecting the Linux kernel, often including their fixing com-
mits and VCCs. Note that we exclude some of the mappings
in the project from our dataset as their corresponding VCC
refers to the initial git commit of the Linux kernel, leaving us
with 1,202 mappings between 885 CVEs and their VCCs. Our
reasoning is that vulnerabilities found in this commit were
introduced before the beginning of the git era and thus using
the timestamp of the initial git commit would let their lifetime
appear shorter than it actually is.
Additionally, we found 436 ground truth mappings for
Chromium10 (226 CVEs), and 163 for the Apache HTTP
Server (httpd) (60 CVEs) in the Vulnerability History
Project [21]. The project also contains a few additional data
points for repositories, other than Chromium and httpd, how-
ever these repositories do not use C/C++ as their main pro-
gramming language. Since the quantity of those mappings
for other programming languages was too low to validate the
accuracy of our methodology on them, we decided to limit
our dataset to C/C++ repositories. Overall we were able to
map 1,171 CVEs to one or more VCCs, from high-quality
sources.
9dataset available at https://figshare.com/s/
4dd1130c336f43f6e18c
10Chromium is a web browser on its own right, but its codebase is also
used as a basis for Google Chrome, as well as other web browsers.