These efforts resulted in a dataset of 5,914 CVEs across 11
projects that can be linked to one or more fixing commits. The
corresponding numbers of CVEs as well as the resulting num-
ber of mappings from this process are listed in Table 1. CVEs
with associated fixing commits are a subset of all of the CVEs
in the NVD. For the calculation of vulnerability lifetime we
could only consider those CVEs, where an associated fixing
commit could be identified in the code repository. Rather
than being a limitation of the approach, this addresses an im-
portant problem with the NVD regarding the reliability of
information on vulnerable products and versions (highlighted
in previous research [23, 24]). Contrary to Li and Paxson [18]
Project CVEs w/ fix. com. # fix. com.
Linux (kernel) 4,302 1,473 1,528
Firefox 2,179 1,498 3,751
Chromium 2,781 1, 580 2,820
Wireshark 600 314 343
Php 663 281 932
Ffmpeg 326 277 373
Openssl 214 144 259
Httpd 248 132 476
Tcpdump 167 115 128
Qemu 340 213 290
Postgres 139 76 141
Total 11,959 5,914 11,041
Table 1: Number of CVEs and mappings per project. First column
gives the total number of CVEs returned from a search of the NVD.
Second column gives the number of those CVEs for which at least
one fixing commit was found in the project repository. Third column
gives the total number of fixing commits found per project.
we focused our efforts on a smaller set of projects with a
significant number of NVD entries available. We dedicated
considerable efforts towards achieving the highest mapping
rate that we could for these projects. In order to do that we
made sure to identify all potential syntaxes for denoting bug
IDs, all websites and corresponding hyperlinks belonging to
the same bug tracking system as well as combining multiple
of the introduced techniques. Consequently, we believe our
dataset to be the most complete mapping for the included
projects. Additionally, we also consider it to be more diverse
than the one used in Li and Paxson’s work, as over 40% of
their data originates from the Linux kernel or an operating
system based on it.
4 Lifetime estimation
In this section, we describe our methodology for automated
lifetime estimation from vulnerability fixing commits. We
start off by evaluating a lower-bound approach used in previ-
ous work [18]. To the best of our knowledge, we are the first
to evaluate this approach against ground truth data.
4.1 Lifetime estimation in previous work
Calculating the lifetime of a vulnerability is a non-trivial task,
as finding VCCs can be very difficult [20]. One approach used
before is manually identifying VCCs via thorough analysis of
the fixing commits of a vulnerability [28]. While this method
likely yields the most accurate results, it is unsuitable for
large scale studies. Therefore, Li and Paxson [18] opted for
an automated approach to the problem. They approximated
a lower bound of a vulnerability’s lifetime by using the git
blame command. Git blame finds which commit last changed
a specific line in a given file, and so can be used to trace a vul-
nerability back to its origin. Li and Paxson’s approach was to
run the command on every deleted or modified line of a given
fixing commit; this process usually returns multiple candidate
VCCs. They then picked the most recent of the commit dates
of those VCCs as their vulnerability introduction date, going
for a lower bound approach.
Although our empirical evaluation showed that this ap-
proach is indeed correct for getting a lower bound on the
lifetime of a vulnerability, we found it too conservative for
our needs. To be precise, we found that it underestimates the
average lifetime for vulnerabilities in our ground truth dataset
by 346.88 days. Due to the large underestimation of average
lifetime, we deem this approach unsuitable for our study.
A heuristic similar to Li and Paxson’s was used by Perl et
al. in VCCFinder [31], albeit for a different goal. Their git
blame-based heuristic aims to pinpoint the exact VCC, with
the goal of creating a dataset suitable for training a classifier
that can flag risky commits. Contrary to the Li and Paxson
approach (that only blames lines that were deleted or modified
in the fixing commit), the VCCFinder heuristic also takes into
account lines added by the fixing commit. The commit that is
blamed the most often is then marked as the VCC.
In VCCFinder, the accuracy of the heuristic is calculated
at 96%. This figure was derived by the authors by taking a
15% sample of VCCs (96 in total) that the heuristic identi-
fied, and manually checking them. Naturally, simply applying
this heuristic seemed like a good fit for our use-case. Un-
fortunately, in our evaluation of the heuristic against ground
truth data, we could not observe similar accuracy (accuracy
~40%). We attribute the optimistic evaluation of the heuristic
by Perl et al. to the difficulty of pinpointing VCCs manually.
Our results seem sensible considering the fact that software
developers put a significant amount of manual effort13 into
regression trackingwhich includes identifying VCCs. Thus,
it seems likely that the accuracy of a relatively simple heuris-
tic like this, is limited. However, for the purpose of training
a classifier that pinpoints “risky” commits, with the aim to
13https://lore.kernel.org/lkml/3519198.TemPj1OATJ@vostro.
rjw.lan/
https://yarchive.net/comp/linux/regression_tracking.html