drastically reduce the search space for subsequent manual
auditing, such accuracy is perfectly acceptable. Indeed, the
authors of VCCFinder showed that it is successful in find-
ing previously unflagged vulnerabilities and outperformed
existing approaches.
4.2 Our approach
A key observation is that we donot need to pinpoint the exact
VCCs for our purposes. It is sufficient to approximate the
point in time when a vulnerability was introduced. We found
that we can estimate this the closest by repurposing the VC-
CFinder heuristic with some slight modifications (similar to
the ones by Yang et al. [41]). We modify the heuristic in such
a way that it returns an approximation (in days) of how long
the code was vulnerable instead of the exact VCC. This is
done by averaging multiple possible dates when the vulner-
ability could have been introduced, and assigning different
weights corresponding to how often each individual commit
was blamed. Our approach is as follows:
1) We use git blame -w14 to map every “interesting” change
of a fixing commit to potential VCCs:
– Ignore changes to tests, comments, empty lines and non
C/C++ files.
– Blame every line that was removed.
– Blame before and after every added block of code (two or
more lines) if it is not a function definition as these can be
inserted arbitrarily.
– Blame before and after each single line the fixing commit
added if it contains at least one of these keywords ("if", "else",
"goto", "return", "sizeof", "break", "NULL") or is a function
call. This approach was shown to perform well in blaming
actual VCCs by Yang et al. [41].
2) We then calculate our estimated introduction date dh from
the list of blamed commits. For n commits we have:
dh = dre f + 1
∑n
i=1 bi
n
∑
i=1
bi(di −dre f) (1)
where bi is determined by the number of blames the commit
i received and di is the respective commit date. For easier
calculation, the dates are represented as difference in days to
a static reference date dre f (January 1, 1900).
Using this heuristic, we decrease the mean error on our
ground truth set by 66% compared to using the lower-bound
blaming heuristic of Li & Paxson, effectively overestimat-
ing the actual average lifetime by 117 days (see Table 2).
However, having a low error on the ground truth dataset does
not necessarily mean that the approach is suitable for our
needs. We have to address some additional important points
regarding the robustness of the approach.
14All projects that we investigated either used git or offered a git mirror of
their repositories. However, the approach is generalizable, as other version
control systems offer similar commands (e.g. svn blame or hg annotate).
−2000 −1500 −1000 −500 0 500 1000 1500 2000
Heuristic error (days)
0.0000
0.0002
0.0004
0.0006
0.0008
0.0010
0.0012
0.0014
0.0016Density
Figure 2: Distribution of heuristic errors in days (excluding data
points with no error for readability). Equally sized bins.
How many data points are needed? A standard deviation
of more than 900 days means that individual measurements
are generally not reliable. Therefore, we need to rely on mea-
surements of the mean over larger sample sizes. Treating the
errors as independent random variables sampled from the
error distribution of Figure 2, we can compute the standard
deviation of the sample mean for a given sample size with the
Bienaymé formula. According to the Central Limit Theorem,
the distribution of the sample mean will be normal for a large
enough number of samples. We empirically conclude that
at least for 20 or more samples, this holds for the distribu-
tion of the errors. Therefore, we can compute bounds for the
sample mean using normal distribution tables. For example,
for a sample size of 20 and a confidence level of 95%, the
sample mean will lie in the interval [117-395, 117+395] days.
Making the simplification that the mean error is 0 (necessary
for generalization), we can say that for a confidence level of
95%, the margin of error will be ±395 days for 20 samples,
±250 days for 50 samples, and ±176 days for 100 samples
(compared to an average lifetime of almost 1150 days, cal-
culated from the ground truth data). We consider the margin
of error for 20 samples as the maximum tolerable error for
our study, and set the minimum number of data points for a
measurement to 20. We, therefore study means of at least 20
CVE samples, although for most of our analysis (e.g. average
lifetimes per project, vulnerability types), we consider means
of 60 or more samples. Note that the calculations above are
approximate and their aim is to get a lower bound for the
number of samples required for meaningful estimation.
Does the weighted average heuristic generalize (over time
and between projects)? Although we have a limited number
of data points in our ground truth dataset, we can see that the
performance of our heuristic is similar for the three different
projects (see Table 2). Another source of confidence in the
robustness of our heuristic is that its error is symmetrically
(nearly normally) distributed around a low mean value (that
can be assumed to be zero), as can be seen in Figure 2. In-