Fig. 2: ReactOS patching of CVE-2018-14498 and CVE-2017-14032. Due to custom reuse, the ReactOS patch differs from the
official one in statement format and the line numbers where the patches are applied.
provided by CVE [5] and NVD [8]. However, many vulnerabil-
ities disclosed by CVE/NVD come with either vague security
patch information or no patch information whatsoever [45].
Commit ranking is a common process [20], [40], [41], [45]
of labeling direct references between security patch-related
commits and vulnerabilities. To identify the patch commit
of a vulnerability, specific sets of features related to commit
candidates and the vulnerabilities (e.g., vulnerability location,
vulnerability identifier) are collected. Then, a pre-trained rank-
ing model is used to estimate the relevance between each
commit and the vulnerability. The most relevant commits
related to security patches are supposed to be prioritized.
Nonetheless, the ranking results highly rely on the quality of
the selected correlation features and the information collected
from CVE/NVD, which are typically manual processes. Al-
though the manual effort is a one-time cost, the variable quality
of the data collected by humans can affect the accuracy and
reliability of the commit ranking. Driven by the fact that public
LLMs such as GPT -4.0have undergone extensive training on a
vast array of data accessible online, including documentation,
blogs, and forums, LLMs have become highly proficient in
grasping the semantic meaning of natural language [13].
Conclusion 3: LLM can assist in natural language
processing to analyze commits and CVE descriptions
semantically and syntactically. It minimizes manual ef-
forts, enhancing the data quality in identifying security-
related information and assessing the implications of code
changes.
III. O VERVIEW
the
Figure 3 illustrates the workflow of VULTURE for detecting
1-day vulnerabilities introduced by reusing TPLs. V ULTURE
consists of three phases, TPLF ILTER Construction, TPL Reuse
Identification, and 1-day Vulnerability Detection.
TPLF ILTER Construction. VULTURE employs TPLF ILTER
to construct a unique database tailored specifically for the
target platform. It is comprised of two segments, the compo-
nent segment, and the vulnerability segment. The component
segment contains the TPL details (e.g., TPL names, TPL ver-
sions, and code information) while the vulnerability segment
includes information on vulnerabilities that have previously or
currently existed in the previous and current versions of each
TPL, respectively.
TPL Reuse Identification. Given a target program, VULTURE
conducts a function-level TPL reuse detection. By extracting
the function hashing of all functions in the target program,
VULTURE identifies the TPLs and their versions that have
been reused by the target program via function-based similarity
comparison. To eliminate the false alarms driven by the custom
TPL reuses, VULTURE analyzes the dependencies among TPLs
to optimize the results and creates a TPL reuse report.
1-day Vulnerability Detection. As TPLs are reused in two
different ways, i.e., exact reuse and custom reuse, V ULTURE
analyzes each type of reuse by utilizing version-based match-
ing and chunk-based analysis, respectively. Through version-
based matching, V ULTURE specifically identifies the functions
that are reused exactly and verifies whether these functions
are vulnerable by searching for the official patches provided
by the TPL contributors. In cases of custom reuses, V ULTURE
re-generates the modified functions into chunk representatives
and analyzes the code modifications within each chunk. It
can determine whether the modifications introduce any vul-
nerabilities at a granular level. As TPLF ILTER includes the
official patches for certain vulnerable TPLs, V ULTURE further
provides fix suggestions based on the reported vulnerabilities.
4