associated with each version of the TPLs in the component
segment. As some developers may patch vulnerabilities on
their own without updating TPL versions, TPLFILTER assesses
security patches, instead of TPL version, to identify whether
a vulnerability affects the target program. Hence, TPLF ILTER
collects security patches of each collected vulnerability, and
compiles these vulnerabilities and their respective security
patches in the vulnerability segment.
Vulnerability detail collection. As the majority of vulnera-
bility reports are typically listed on CVE and NVD, V ULTURE
crawls the vulnerability reports from these websites. Within
these reports, each vulnerability is assigned a unique CVE ID
for identification and is described using a CPE (Common Plat-
form Enumeration) to specify the software versions affected.
Given each TPL stored in the component segment, V UL-
TURE first filters the vulnerability reports whose descriptions
contain the TPL name at a coarse level by invoking the
NVD API with keywordSearch1 . Nonetheless, vulnerabil-
ity descriptions encompass not only the names of vulnerable
libraries but also the names of other software impacted by these
vulnerable libraries, rendering keyword searches less precise.
Therefore, VULTURE conducts a CPE-guided matching to filter
vulnerability reports for effective vulnerability identification.
Specifically, to determine whether a vulnerability affects a
target TPL, it retrieves the CPE information in the vulnera-
bility report and checks whether the target TPL name is the
substring of the CPE string. If the target TPL name is matched,
VULTURE regards that the vulnerability affects the target TPL
and records the corresponding information of the CVE ID,
its CPE, and the vulnerable TPL version(s). Typically, CPE
manages the vulnerable software versions in two ways: through
enumerations or version intervals. For enumeration, V ULTURE
directly extracts all vulnerable version numbers. In the case
of interval specification, V ULTURE first obtains and ranks all
versions of a TPL in ascending order, and then determines the
start and end versions that fall within the specific vulnerable
version interval.
Unfortunately, we inspected that some vulnerability reports
are informally written, thus these vulnerabilities might be over-
looked by keyword searches and CPE matching. To address
such issues, V ULTURE extracts additional vulnerability reports
from public databases including SNYK [12] and the official
websites of TPLs [7] [4] for further detail matching.
Security patch collection. VULTURE collects security patches
for each vulnerability to support accurate 1-day vulnerability
detection and examine whether a reused TPL in the target
programs has been patched. Although CVE/NVD includes patch
information for some vulnerabilities, a significant portion of
the patch information is not updated timely or maintained
properly [6], [36]. Alternatively, TPLs maintained on GitHub
frequently release security patches as GitHub commits, which
typically include descriptions of vulnerabilities as well as
detailed code changes.
To effectively and comprehensively obtain the vulnera-
bility patches, V ULTURE constructs an LLM-based multi-
sliced patch searching approach to locate the specific security
1https://services.nvd.nist.gov/rest/json/cves/2.0?keywordSearch={*}, where
element * refers to the name of the target TPL.
patches of each vulnerability. Given the CVE description main-
tained by CVE/NVD and the repository commits maintained by
GitHub of each TPL, V ULTURE proceeds with the following
four steps:
1) LLM-based description parsing: The vulnerability detail
provided by CVE/NVD typically consists of the vulnerability
description (e.g., vulnerability type, vulnerable files, vulnerable
functions, vulnerable variables, and some specific vulnerable
features), and CPE describing the affected TPL information
(e.g., vendor(s) of the TPL, TPL name and versions). Corre-
spondingly, VULTURE employs a LLM by invoking GPT3.5 to
parse the vulnerability description and then extracts the vul-
nerable elements affected by the vulnerability, i.e., vulnerable
files, vulnerable functions, and vulnerable variables.
2) Slice-based commit filtering: As a vulnerable TPL repos-
itory may contain numerous commits that cover document
changes, routine common bug fixes, feature modifications, and
vulnerability patches, it is time-consuming and error-prone
to analyze those commits one by one. Therefore, V ULTURE
conducts a date-specific commit slicing to exclude the commits
confirmed to be irrelevant to the vulnerabilities at a coarse-
grained level. Specifically, V ULTURE first identifies all the
vulnerable versions from the vulnerability description and CPE
information. Since the version released immediately after the
last vulnerable version is typically the first patched version
of a vulnerability, V ULTURE extracts the timestamps of when
the last vulnerable version and the first patched version were
published. Correspondingly, all the commits generated within
the time range between these two timestamps are considered
as potential patch commits. Then, it divides the potential patch
commits into multiple slices based on average partitioning
(i.e., each slice contains k commits. Within each slice i,
VULTURE calculates a code diff diffi between the first and the
last commits. If diffi contains any of the vulnerable elements,
VULTURE labels the slice i as a candidate slice, indicating that
at least one commit within this slice contains modifications
related to vulnerability-specific code elements. Otherwise, it
continues analyzing the next slice i + 1.
3) Candidate commit selection: After locating the candidate
slice, V ULTURE performs fine-grained analysis to select the
candidate commits that are related to the vulnerability. It
compares vulnerable code with each patch to generate a code
diff. If the code diff includes any of the vulnerable elements,
VULTURE labels the commit as a candidate commit and
advances to step (4) for further confirmation.
4) LLM-based patch commit mapping: VULTURE employs
LLM to confirm the patch commits. On one hand, some
commits within the candidate commits may also modify the
vulnerable elements yet are not the patch regarding the target
vulnerability, requiring V ULTURE to exclude these commits;
on the other hand, some CPE information provided by NVD
is incorrect [24] which may lead to false alarms. To address
the challenges, V ULTURE takes as input the CVE description
and each candidate commit (i.e., commit description and the
modified code), and invokes GPT4.0 to infer whether the CVE
and the commit are relevant. It is important to note that only
minor candidate commits are needed to be analyzed here, thus
GPT4.0 incurs minimal costs to calculate the correlations.
A detailed example of patch commit mapping is illustrated
6