Enhancing Security in Third-Party Library Reuse -
Comprehensive Detection of 1-day Vulnerability
through Code Patch Analysis
Shangzhi Xu§, Jialiang Dong §, Weiting Cai†, Juanru Li ‡, Arash Shaghaghi §, Nan Sun §, Siqi Ma §*
§The University of New South Wales
Emails: {shangzhi.xu, jialiang.dong, a.shaghaghi, nan.sun, siqi.ma }@unsw.edu.au
†Delft University of Technology
Email: weitingcai2020@gmail.com
‡Feiyu Tech
Email: romangol t@hotmail.com
Abstract—Nowadays, software development progresses
rapidly to incorporate new features. To facilitate such growth
and provide convenience for developers when creating and
updating software, reusing open-source software (i.e., third-
party library reuses) has become one of the most effective
and efficient methods. Unfortunately, the practice of reusing
third-party libraries (TPLs) can also introduce vulnerabilities
(known as 1-day vulnerabilities) because of the low maintenance
of TPLs, resulting in many vulnerable versions remaining in
use. If the software incorporating these TPLs fails to detect the
introduced vulnerabilities and leads to delayed updates, it will
exacerbate the security risks. However, the complicated code
dependencies and flexibility of TPL reuses make the detection of
1-day vulnerability a challenging task. To support developers in
securely reusing TPLs during software development, we design
and implement V ULTURE , an effective and efficient detection
tool, aiming at identifying 1-day vulnerabilities that arise from
the reuse of vulnerable TPLs. It first executes a database creation
method, TPLF ILTER , which leverages the Large Language
Model (LLM) to automatically build a unique database for the
targeted platform. Instead of relying on code-level similarity
comparison, V ULTURE employs hashing-based comparison to
explore the dependencies among the collected TPLs and identify
the similarities between the TPLs and the target projects.
Recognizing that developers have the flexibility to reuse TPLs
exactly or in a custom manner, V ULTURE separately conducts
version-based comparison and chunk-based analysis to capture
fine-grained semantic features at the function levels. We applied
VULTURE to 10 real-world projects to assess its effectiveness
and efficiency in detecting 1-day vulnerabilities. V ULTURE
successfully identified 175 vulnerabilities from 178 reused TPLs.
I. I NTRODUCTION
As software evolves various innovative functionalities
nowadays (e.g., AI-based classification, unmanned operations),
it makes software increasingly complicated and challenging to
develop and maintain because of intricate dependencies among
its massive functions. Open-source software (OSS) reuse en-
ables developers to integrate the functionalities faster, which
facilitates more efficient development and code maintenance.
Simultaneously, reusing OSS supports flexible development of
features because developers can either deploy OSS as TPLs
exactly or in a custom manner [46]. However, this convenience
also makes it more likely for developers to unintentionally in-
troduce vulnerabilities, known as 1-day vulnerabilities, through
TPL reuse [21] [43]. Such security issues are commonly
brought because 1) some TPLs may no longer be actively
maintained anymore, leaving their functionalities incomplete
or vulnerable to security risks, especially when vulnerabilities
are exploited; 2) the decentralized nature of OSSes makes it
difficult to keep track of all code changes made by contributors,
complicating the enforcement of security reviews and practices
when reusing the TPLs; 3) TPLs are not always developed by
following the best practices, which can make them more vul-
nerable. For instance, MOVEit Transfer, a file transfer project,
experienced a security breach due to SQL injection in June
2023, which puts all dependent software at risk of unauthorized
access; thus the dependent software is required to install the
patched version to safeguard their data promptly [35].
To explore 1-day vulnerabilities brought by TPL reuses,
some studies [26] [28] [48] only analyze the reuses without
any modifications (i.e. exact reuse) by employing similarity
comparison, which identifies whether the functions from TPLs
are invoked in the target program. Unfortunately, exact reuse
is only a small portion of TPL reuse because of its functional
restrictions during software development. The flexibility of
custom TPL reuse enhances functionality customization, yet
it simultaneously introduces challenges in recognizing TPL
reuse and detecting 1-day vulnerabilities caused by TPL reuse.
Although some existing tools, such as V1SCAN [46] and
MVP [51], claimed that they are capable of analyzing custom
TPL deployment, these tools can only handle simple custom
reuses with minor modifications, which leaves the problem far
away from being fully resolved. Making 1-day vulnerability
detection more complicated, developers may fix vulnerable
TPL functions in a custom way, rather than using official
updates or upgrading the entire TPLs [19].
To bridge the above gaps, we propose V ULTURE , a novel
vulnerability detection tool, to explore the potential 1-day vul-
Network and Distributed System Security (NDSS) Symposium 2025
24-28 February 2025, San Diego, CA, USA
ISBN 979-8-9894372-8-3
https://dx.doi.org/10.14722/ndss.2025.240576
www.ndss-symposium.org