code diff Diffvp. Subsequently, V ULTURE analyzes the Diffvp
to determine if the modified items in Diffvp are functions
or global declarations (e.g., global variables, structures, and
macros). For functions, V ULTURE extracts and records the
entire function of both the vulnerable and patched code as
the vulnerable and patched functions, respectively; while for
global declarations, V ULTURE records them as the vulnera-
ble and patched global declarations. Then, within the target
program, leveraging ctags, V ULTURE specifically labels each
code snippet as either a function or a global declaration and
compares them with vulnerable/patched functions/declarations,
respectively.
As a result, V ULTURE distinguishes TPL reuses in the
target program into four groups and processes each group with
function-level granularity, ensuring that unused functions in the
TPLs do not affect the detection accuracy:
G1: No vulnerable reuse. It indicates a target program
reuses the vulnerable version of a TPL without involving any
vulnerable functions or vulnerable global declaration.
• Analysis: When all the target code snippets are exactly
equal to the patched function or the patched global
declaration, V ULTURE regards the target program as G1.
The target programs in this group are considered secure.
G2: Vulnerable global declaration reuse. It represents that
a target program only reuses vulnerable global declarations.
• Analysis: When any of the global declarations in a target
code snippet exactly equals to that of the vulnerable
global declarations, V ULTURE regards the target program
as G2.
• Confirmation: VULTURE employs line matching to iden-
tify the vulnerable declarations. If a global declaration
that is deleted from the vulnerable TPL continues to
appear in the target code snippet, V ULTURE considers
that a vulnerability is identified. Furthermore, when a
global declaration added to the patched TPL does not
appear in the target code snippet, V ULTURE considers
the target program as vulnerable. A 1-day vulnerability is
then identified.
G3: Exact vulnerable reuse : It represents that a target pro-
gram exactly reuses the vulnerable function of a TPL without
providing any patches.
• Analysis: VULTURE labels the target program as G3 if
any target functions are equal to the vulnerable functions.
• Confirmation: VULTURE utilizes TLSH to compute the
hash values of the vulnerable function and the target
function snippet. If any function in the target program
shares the same hash value as the vulnerable function,
VULTURE considers it unpatched and classified to G3. A
1-day vulnerability is then identified.
G4: Custom reuse: It represents that a target program reuses
the vulnerable or patched functions with custom modifications.
• Analysis: VULTURE labels the target program as G4
if any target functions are similar to the vulnerable or
patched functions. If the similarity score for any pair of
functions exceeds THsim, V ULTURE classifies the target
program as G4.
• Confirmation: VULTURE uses TLSH to compare the hash
values of each function in the target program with those
of the vulnerable function. Since it involves custom reuse,
it is uncertain whether the target program is secure; thus,
VULTURE confirms the vulnerable custom reuses via a
chunk-based analysis.
2) Chunk-based analysis: To preserve the semantic and
syntactic information that is overlooked by function [28] and
line matching [46], static analysis has traditionally been used,
but it comes with significant challenges. First, static analy-
sis requires compilable code, which is problematic because
patches are often provided as isolated snippets that cannot
be compiled directly. Second, static analysis demands an
extensive environment setup for compilation, which is both
time-consuming and resource-intensive.
To resolve the issues brought by the traditional static
analysis, V ULTURE utilizes chunk-based code analysis to
examine custom reused functions, striking a balance between
efficiency and accuracy in semantic information extraction
without the reliance on compilation. For these customized
functions, V ULTURE verifies whether these custom modifica-
tions provide the same security functionality as those in the
official patches released by TPL contributors. Specifically, for
chunk-based analysis, a chunk represents a group of modified
lines focused on a specific functionality. In a given function,
the lines within the same chunk are either governed by the
same control structures (e.g., if-else, while, for) or
operate on the same set of variables. A chunk preserves both
the semantic meaning and contextual relationships embedded
within the patch code, ensuring an accurate assessment of
custom adaptations.
Taking as input the information of CVE ID, vulnerable
code snippets, patched code snippets, Diffvp, and target code
snippets, V ULTURE proceeds with the following steps:
Chunk construction. When reusing TPLs, the target program
might alter the format of the reused code. Thus, VULTURE first
standardizes all code snippets, including target code snippets,
vulnerable code, and the patched code. According to the LLVM
coding standard2, VULTURE removes unnecessary entities such
as leading spaces, comments, and constant strings.
After normalization, V ULTURE separately initiates code
diff among the target, vulnerable, and patched code snippets.
The comparison correspondingly yields three code diff (i.e.,
Diffvt, Diffpt, and Diffvp), where Diffvt is the code diff between
the target and vulnerable code snippets, Diffpt is the code diff
between the target and patched code snippets, and Diffvp is the
code diff between the vulnerable and patched code snippets.
Each line in the above code diff is treated as an individual
chunk. We manually predefined 40 regular expressions, cov-
ering all types of statements (e.g., call expressions, binary
operations). Using these regular expressions, V ULTURE then
extracts the variables and operations involved in each chunk.
It further adopts a disjoint-set union algorithm to identify the
data-dependent chunks when 1) the chunks are part of the
same control block without any nested control structures, or 2)
chunks share the same variable. Eventually, all related chunks
2LLVM Coding Standard: https://llvm.org/docs/CodingStandards.html
8