1995 May 2010 Aug
2011 Sep
2018 May
zlib
Start to maintain at:
zlib.net 
Linux
Reused zlib at:
linux/lib/zlib_deflate
TrinityCore
Reused zlib at: 
dep/zlib
zlib
Mirrored to: 
github.com/madler/zlib
TizenRT
Reused zlib at: 
external/grpc/extlib/zlib2005 May
Fig. 1: Example of zlib Maintenance and Reuse
• Specific: Different platforms may have unique libraries
that cannot be used by the other platforms. To avoid false
alarms, libraries specific to other platforms, unnecessary
for the targeted platform, or projects not used as libraries
must be excluded during the detection process.
• Maintainable: TPLs are often developed to accelerate
the development cycle of open-source software and are
regularly updated to fix bugs and integrate new features.
Hence, the libraries included in the database should also
be extendable — to accommodate the newly-created li-
braries, updatable — to include the latest library versions,
and traceable — to track all previous revision details.
Unfortunately, the existing TPL databases [27], [48], [49] fall
short of the necessary standards as they are neither compre-
hensive nor specific, and they lack efficient mechanisms for
updates to include additional whitelists. When updating these
databases, it is imperative to reconstruct them by meticulously
repeating all of the steps, including the library collection
and redundancy elimination. This process is time-consuming,
particularly because redundancy elimination typically incurs
higher costs, requiring approximately 100 hours [48], [49].
Therefore, a powerful and adaptive database is expected to
be built.
Detection of TPL reuse. Apart from the platform diver-
sity, each TPL includes a variety of functions to serve
different purposes, allowing developers to choose specific
APIs that align with their unique requirements. For instance,
coreMQTT [3] provides two APIs, MQTT_ProcessLoop()
and MQTT_ReceiveLoop(), for receiving packets from the
transport interface iteratively. If it is not necessary to keep
the receiving portal alive, MQTT_ProcessLoop() can be
selected; otherwise, MQTT_ReceiveLoop() should be cho-
sen. Therefore, it is necessary to check the functions invoked
in the target program by matching them with the functions
declared in the libraries. Nonetheless, such similarity-based
determination is heuristic and highly relies on a threshold
established through manual observation. A high threshold
might miss some cases; whereas a low threshold leads to many
false alarms. Due to the diverse infrastructure, developers may
modify some functions in TPLs to fit their code structure
better, rather than reusing TPLs exactly, which complicates
the similarity comparison process as well. Hence, additional
details such as birth times of when each version of TPLs was
created are employed as auxiliary information [48]. Relying
on single auxiliary information may be insufficient to validate
the complicated dependencies among TPLs and the dependent
software.
Considering the real-world TPL reuses demonstrated in
Figure 1 as an example, it illustrates the dependencies among
zlib, Linux, TrinityCore, and TizenRT, and the birth time of
each project. Specifically, zlib was created at zlib.net in May
1995 and was mirrored to GitHub in September 2011. Linux,
TrinityCore, and TizenRT separately reuse zlib for compression
and decompression; thus three projects share some common
functions that are invoked from zlib. Since zlib was initially
released on its own websites and only appears on GitHub
later than both Linux and TrinityCore, the validation through
function similarity comparison and birth time ranking [48]
consequently wrongly indicates that TizenRT reuses functions
from both Linux and TrinityCore.
Conclusion 1: The comparison process should be op-
timized by incorporating sufficient and accurate TPL
information for effective TPL reuse detection.
1-day vulnerability detection within TPLs. The integration
of TPLs within the development cycle of OSS not only
offers convenience for implementing common features but also
introduces security and privacy hazards by importing security
issues. Some of these vulnerabilities arise from integrating
the vulnerable versions of TPLs [16], [28], [46], [50], [58],
while others occur because of the violations of specific usage
requirements [19], [56], [60]. 1-day vulnerabilities are typically
caused by the former.
Similar to TPL reuse detection, some vulnerable features
are required for syntactical and semantic comparison to rec-
ognize the potential vulnerabilities introduced by the reused
TPLs. According to the types of reused TPLs, the exact TPL
reuses can be commonly analyzed via feature comparison [19],
[50], [58] or even solely through the comparison of TPL
versions. However, real-world TPL reuse can be customized by
modifying specific segments to achieve functional objectives.
While some studies have considered customized reuses, they
heavily rely on coarse-grained semantic analysis to pinpoint
the common features that appear in both vulnerable code
and patches (e.g., variable names [28], core lines of state-
ments [46], coarse-grained function abstraction [51]). Many
false alarms are consequently reported. Hence, it is essential to
differentiate the critical statements and operations that are the
root causes of a vulnerability for vulnerability identification.
Considering the TPL reuses in ReactOS (shown in Fig-
ure 2) as an example, ReactOS originally reused vulnerable
TPL versions of libjepg-turbo and mbedtls. Then it patches the
vulnerabilities in a custom way. While the statement contents
remain the same, the line numbers where the statements are
located and the format of the statements changed, such alter-
ation challenges the existing approaches [28] [46] to accurately
identify the custom patches.
Conclusion 2: Selecting critical vulnerable features that
contribute to the generation and mitigation of a vulnera-
bility can enhance the effectiveness and efficiency of 1-
day vulnerability detection.
B. CVE and Commit Analysis
Software assessment relies on publicly available informa-
tion on vulnerabilities and security patches, which is typically
3