TABLE VII: Vulnerability Detection Result in Wild Software
Target VULTURE SNYK V1SCAN
Dtc Cfm Dtc Confm Dtc Cfm
AliOS-Things 93 89 105 84 8 2
LiteOS 19 19 22 16 3 3
TizenRT 68 66 16 10 11 8
Tasmota 1 1 2 0 0 0
TDengine 0 0 3 1 0 0
Total 181 175 148 111 22 13
Dtc: Vulnerabilities been detected.
Cfm: Vulnerabilities been confirmed with manual check.
TABLE VIII: Time cost of TPL reuse and 1-day vulnerability
detection across different tools (in seconds)
Target VULTURE V1SCAN
TPL reuse 1-day TPL reuse 1-day
AliOS-Things 20.1 3.0 23.5 11.8
LiteOS 14.1 3.9 28.1 8.7
Tasmota 5.5 129.9 7.1 -
TizenRT 9.2 2.1 8.1 8.8
TDengine 37.2 - 59.4 -
The values in the table represent the average time (in seconds) required
to detect a single TPL reuse or a single 1-day vulnerability. A dash (”-”)
indicates that no reuses or vulnerabilities were identified.
SNYK detected 111 vulnerabilities, and V1SCAN detected
only 13. Furthermore, V ULTURE also pinpointed the exact
locations and specific code statements that required to be
patched, and provided 154 GitHub patch commit URLs for
the identified vulnerabilities. However, SNYK only reported the
CVE ID and provided 59 GitHub patch commit URLs, without
offering further detailed information about the specific code
requiring patching, and V1SCAN provided only 13 GitHub
patch commits and limited information about vulnerabilities,
such as the vulnerable file and function names,
While manually verifying the missed cases, we observed
that SNYK heavily relies on version information maintained by
the target program. When a program does not maintain such
information well, such as TizenRT, SNYK will miss numerous
vulnerabilities. When analyzing 87 vulnerabilities missed by
V1SCAN, we found that 64 were caused by its limited database
and others resulted from its coarse-grained line-matching ap-
proach. Besides, SNYK and V1SCAN incorrectly reported 37
and 9 vulnerabilities, respectively. Our manual checks revealed
that these inaccuracies stemmed from SNYK’s reliance on
version-based detection and V1SCAN’s coarse-grained line-
matching methods.
While analyzing the six vulnerabilities missed by V UL-
TURE , but detected by SNYK and V1SCAN, three of them
were missed due to the absence of patch commits which are
mandatory for V ULTURE to locate patches. The remaining
cases involved extensive code modifications, which caused
VULTURE to fail in pairing the reused functions.
3) Time cost: We assessed the time cost of V ULTURE and
V1SCAN in detecting TPL reuse and 1-day vulnerabilities.
Table VIII illustrates the time cost. Typically, V ULTURE costs
no more than 25s to recognize all TPL reuses and less than
5s to identify a 1-day vulnerability even when handling large
programs like AliOS-Things. In contrast. V1SCAN usually takes
more than 25s to locate a reuse and more than 5s to report a
1-day vulnerability. When analyzing programs with extensive
TPL reuses (e.g., Tasmota), VULTURE takes longer to identify
a single 1-day vulnerability, but V1SCAN times out without
reporting any.
E. Limitation
Database Accuracy. The performance of V ULTURE heavily
relies on the database quality. Since V ULTURE uses vulnerable
elements and patched code to identify 1-day vulnerabilities,
poor quality or inconsistent formats in the data provided
by NVD significantly impact the performance of V ULTURE .
Furthermore, V ULTURE utilizes LLM to capture vulnerable
elements for patch identification, which makes V ULTURE
highly dependent on the performance of LLM. Although LLM
performs well generally when processing natural language
contexts, manual verification might still be necessary to ensure
the accuracy of patch mapping. Otherwise, the performance of
the vulnerability detection can be negatively affected.
Similarity Comparison Limitation. Although V ULTURE
avoids using function or line matching to identify custom
reuses, the employed LSH comparison can still bring inac-
curacies when processing custom reuses that involve extensive
modifications. The settings of similarity thresholds THhash
need to be adjusted to match various databases and accommo-
date different application scenarios.
Dataflow Restrictions in Chunk-based Analysis. As V UL-
TURE generates chunks by analyzing code diff and the in-
volved variables, it may cause incomplete data flows within
chunks, leading to certain information loss. Consequently,
VULTURE performs poorly when analyzing target programs
with extensive code modifications. In addition, the accuracy
of chunk generation also depends on the recognition results
of vulnerable elements extracted from each CVE description.
Correspondingly, chunk-based analysis is also affected the
capability of LLM in processing natural language descriptions.
VI. R ELATED WORK
Sections A, B, and C present the related work on TPL
Reuse Detection, Security Patch Collection, and TPL Vulnera-
bility Detection, respectively.
A. TPL Reuse Detection
TPL reuse detection is an essential task aimed at iden-
tifying the TPLs that software relies on, thereby facilitating
comprehensive software maintenance and management [32].
Several detection approaches [14], [23], [27], [30], [33], [37],
[44], [48], [49], [58] targeting distinct platforms have been
proposed.
TPL reuse tends to introduce similar or even identical code
segments from TPL into software, based on this, some studies
proposed keyword token-based code reuse detection. Sourcer-
erCC [37] leveraged token-based detection, which matches
similar blocks using a bag-of-tokens-based strategy. Further,
CCAligner [44] introduced the concept of a code window
and additionally considered edit distance to detect large-gap
code reuse. However, token-based methods possessed poor
13