in Appendix A.
B. TPL Reuse Identification
To determine what TPLs are reused in each target pro-
gram, V ULTURE takes as input the component segment of
the database to check whether these TPLs are invoked. It first
employs an LSH algorithm to generate a list of TPL candidates
that the target program may use. Subsequently, it refines the
identification process by incorporating additional information
for further confirmation.
1) Candidate Library Detection: As TPLs may be reused
either exactly or in a custom manner, relying solely on match-
ing function names and code statements may overlook such
custom cases. Hence, V ULTURE leverages the LSH algorithm
to conduct code similarity analysis.
Specifically, V ULTURE first extracts all files along with
their paths from the target program and then proceeds with
these files one by one. Then, VULTURE divides each file within
the target program into target function snippets based on the
declared functions. Given each function snippet, it uses Python
TLSH, an LSH-based fuzzy matching library, to generate a
unique hash value, Each target function snippet i can be rep-
resented by a 2-tuple: ft(i) =< Hash(i), Func path(i) >,
where Hash is the hash value of the target function snippet
i and Func path represents the file path where the function
snippet i is defined. V ULTURE then computes the similarity
between the target function snippets and TPL functions in
the component segment. For each target function snippet i,
VULTURE compares it with each function j from the TPL
iteratively. In particular, it takes as input Hash(i) and H(j)
and leverages TLSH to calculate a similarity score between
functions i and j. If the similarity score falls below a hash
threshold THhash, the function pair of i and j is consid-
ered similar. After all target function snippets are analyzed,
VULTURE calculates the total number of similar function
pairs. When the total number exceeds a similarity threshold
THsim, it represents that the corresponding TPL may be
used. Since different versions of a TPL may vary significantly,
VULTURE identifies the version with the highest number of
similar function pairs as a TPL prevalent version and then
captures the information of the TPL (i.e., TPL name, hash
value of the function in the TPL, TPL version, and the file path
where the TPL is reused in the target program) to store in the
candidate TPL list. It is important to note that when multiple
TPL versions have the same number of similar function pairs,
VULTURE randomly selects one version as the TPL prevalent
version. V ULTURE iteratively analyzes all functions in the
target program and collects a list of candidate TPLs that are
potentially reused.
2) Identification Optimization: The common similarity-
based approaches, such as Centris, may produce a signifi-
cant number of false positives because 1) TPLs with similar
functionalities may employ the same functions; 2) the inter-
dependencies among TPLs may result in a high degree of
function overlap between TPLs. To accurately select which
TPL is reused, V ULTURE leverages auxiliary information, i.e.,
file paths and birth time, to optimize the candidate list.
Some existing approaches (e.g., SNYK [12]) use TPL
licenses to identify reuses because the target program must
declare a TPL license either in a LICENSE file or through
an annotation when reusing. However, we observed that these
TPL licenses are usually written inconsistently and informally,
without adhering to standards. V ULTURE may overlook the
declared TPLs when using such information. Hence, VULTURE
examines file paths illustrating where TPLs are reused in the
target program and the birth time of each TPL as the indicators.
Generally, the target program places code that reuses TPLs
under a separate directory and then names the directory with
a title similar to the TPL name. The birth time is used to
pinpoint the first invocation of the reused function, thereby
eliminating the redundant TPL dependencies involved during
function comparison.
To confirm the reused TPLs, V ULTURE first groups TPL
candidates together when they share the same file path in the
target program. For the TPL candidates in the same group,
a path tokenizer is used to divide each file path into tokens
based on the separators (e.g., space, backslash, and colon).
Then V ULTURE compares each token with the name of each
TPL candidate and calculates a Jaccard similarity score [34],
and selects the TPL candidate(s) with the highest Jaccard
similarity score as the confirmed reused TPL. Note that a
file may invoke functions from multiple TPLs, thus several
TPLs can have the same Jaccard similarity score. V ULTURE
further addresses the inheritance cases where several TPLs
share the same score to locate the confirmed reused TPL. First,
VULTURE gathers the remaining TPL candidates sharing the
same hash value H into a group, indicating that these TPLs
are related. Within each group, V ULTURE compares the birth
time of each TPL and identifies the one with the earliest birth
time as the parent TPL of the group (i.e., the confirmed TPL of
the target program). All the remaining TPL candidates in the
group are then removed. For each target program, V ULTURE
eventually generates a TPL reuse report containing all the
confirmed reused TPLs.
C. 1-day Vulnerability Detection
When the TPL reuse report discloses that a vulnerable
version of TPL has been reused, V ULTURE then determines
whether any vulnerable functions are being invoked exactly
or in a custom way. Hence, V ULTURE implements a dual
analysis strategy at the function level, utilizing version-based
and chunk-based analyses to distinguish exact and custom
reuses, respectively.
1) Version-based analysis: By inspecting the reused TPLs,
we found that some developers may reuse a vulnerable TPL
version, but patch the vulnerable code snippets themselves.
Therefore, V ULTURE utilizes a diff-inspired version-based
analysis to examine a TPL reuse from three aspects: 1) whether
reuse is exact or customized in terms of TPL reuses; 2) whether
the reused TPL version is vulnerable; and 3) whether the
exploited vulnerabilities are patched.
In detail, VULTURE first takes the TPL reuse report as input
to extract the reused TPL and its version. According to the
TPL name and the version, it queries the vulnerability segment
of the database to verify if the reused version of the TPL
was linked to any CVE report. If a CVE report is identified,
VULTURE extracts the vulnerable and patched version of the
code related to the CVE, and then utilizes diff to locate the
7