nerabilities brought by TPL reuses effectively and efficiently.
As TPLs designed for different target platforms vary signif-
icantly [54], V ULTURE first conducts a mutually promoted
approach, TPLF ILTER , to heuristically refine existing OSSes
by selecting the TPLs appropriate for the specific target plat-
form(s). It constructs a multifaceted database that includes all
the vulnerable and patched TPLs through LLM-based commit
slicing. Instead of retaining all information (e.g., project code,
descriptions, fix commits) of each TPL, TPLFILTER condenses
each TPL version into several independent functions, and
then converts the functions into compact and numerical tuples
using the LSH algorithm [25]. According to the TPL database
generated by TPLF ILTER , V ULTURE employs a similarity-
based method to detect TPL reuse within the target program,
identifying both the reused TPLs and their versions.
Based on the database, V ULTURE undertakes a dual TPL
analysis to meticulously examine exact and custom code reuse.
In particular, V ULTURE first conducts version-based analysis
to explore exact TPL reuses by identifying the vulnerable TPL
versions from the target program. Then, it employs fine-grained
reformatting through code tokenization and chunk-based anal-
ysis to identify custom TPL reuse. To preserve semantic and
contextual information, V ULTURE generates each chunk by
conducting intra-procedural analysis to collect information
on variables (i.e., values, operations, and relative positions)
involved in code modifications during the transition from the
vulnerable code to the patched code. By comparing the chunks
with the target program, V ULTURE reports whether any 1-day
vulnerabilities exist and pinpoints their exact locations.
To assess the effectiveness of TPLF ILTER and V ULTURE ,
we created a benchmark by manually analyzing 68 real-
world projects, labeling 200 TPL reuses, and identifying 200
vulnerable reused functions from those reuses. By integrating
the database created by TPLF ILTER , V ULTURE successfully
identified 184 vulnerable reused functions, achieving an F1
@ 95.8% while the state-of-the-art tool, V1SCAN only de-
tected 100 vulnerable reused functions, achieving an F1 @
66.7%. V ULTURE not only outperforms the state-of-the-art
academic tool but also surpasses the commercial tool. We
applied VULTURE and a commercial detection tool SNYK [12]
to analyze TPL reuses within 10 real-world projects on a
large scale. V ULTURE outperformed SNYK by identifying 175
vulnerabilities from 178 TPL reuses, while SNYK identified
111 vulnerabilities and V1SCAN only identified 13. Our find-
ings indicate that custom adaptations of TPLs are widespread,
representing about 55% of all reuses. Additionally, the majority
of 1-day vulnerabilities were due to the reuse of outdated
TPLs, a problem often compounded by poor maintenance
and the lack of thorough fix guidance from public security
advisories.
Contribution:
• A novel approach to automatically build an extendable
database tailored for TPL analysis on a designated plat-
form.
We design a mutually promoted approach, TPLF ILTER ,
that integrates keyword searching with a LLM to explore
the commonly used TPLs, along with the associated
vulnerabilities and patch code. All vulnerabilities and
patch information are then gathered to create a TPL
vulnerability database.
• An effective 1-day vulnerability detection tool to discover
the reused TPLs and any potential vulnerabilities that
have been exploited. We design a 1-day vulnerability
detection tool, V ULTURE , that employs locality-sensitive
hashing (LSH) comparisons and a dual intra-procedural
analysis to exploit target programs semantically and
syntactically. It can distinguish the vulnerable TPLs by
recognizing both the official patches provided by TPL
owners and the custom patches created by developers.
• A comprehensive evaluation across TPLF ILTER and
VULTURE . We evaluate both TPLF ILTER and V ULTURE
by comparing them with state-of-the-art tools on real-
world projects. V ULTURE discovered 175 vulnerabilities
from 10 real-world IoT projects and provided 154 patch
commits.
Availability. The source code of V ULTURE
and the experiment datasets are available at
https://github.com/ShangzhiXu/VULTURE Detector.
II. B ACKGROUND
A. Third-party Library Reuse
Developers extensively employ TPLs to cater to the diverse
requirements of different users. For example, multiple MQTT
client libraries are designed to simplify the deployment and
implementation for connecting remote devices such as IoT
devices, while zlib is frequently employed for managing file
compression and decompression.
To recognize used TPLs, state-of-the-art detectors usually
operate across three phases. First, a TPL database contain-
ing whitelists of known libraries is built. These whitelists
are typically generated through manual analysis and require
regular updates. Given the database, detectors then collect the
representative features/signatures (e.g., invoked functions [30],
[48], [49], keyword tokens [37], [44], function dependen-
cies [18], [27], [31], [42], [53]) of the OSS utilized as the
target for TPL reuse detection (i.e. target program). To en-
hance the effectiveness of TPL reuse detection, some detectors
optimize the process by eliminating redundant functions and
statements [48] or defining the significance level of each
function [42], [49]. The similarity score between the collected
representative features/signatures and the libraries stored in
the database is further calculated. Reuse is confirmed if the
similarity score exceeds a pre-defined threshold. The major
challenge in detecting reused TPLs is the inconsistency of
reusing TPLs within different targeted programs .
TPL database construction. Without a universal standard, de-
velopers across different platforms (e.g., IoT firmware, mobile
operating systems, Open-source software) tailor varied infras-
tructures to meet specific objectives. Hence, TPL providers
sometimes offer specialized versions of TPLs to better adapt
to specific platform(s). For instance, CocoaMQTT [2], Paho
Android Service [10] and Paho MQTT C/C++ client[11] are
MQTT client libraries for iOS, Android, and embedded plat-
forms, respectively. Hence, the TPL database used for reuse
matching must be:
• Comprehensive: TPLs that are commonly invoked within
the targeted platform must be included.
2