• Characteristic comparison. We compared DB iot with
the prevalent library database published recently [48]
[27].
• Database integration. We integrated DB iot with the
state-of-the-art TPL reuse detection tool, Centris, to verify
if its detection performance is enhanced.
Characteristic Comparison. We compared DB iot with
DBkwd and the databases constructed by Centris (i.e.,
DBcentris) and TPLite (i.e., DB tplite) from three aspects:
storage consumption, efficiency and maintainability.
The comparison results are listed in Table I. In total, DB iot
includes only 1,872 libraries related to IoT, requiring 3.5 GB
of storage, but DB kwd and DBcentris consume ten times more
storage because they include many irrelevant libraries through
random TPL selection. In contrast, TPLF ILTER effectively
filters out most irrelevant libraries when constructing DB iot.
When processing each TPL, although DB iot, DBkwd, and
DBcentris cost the same time to clone one TPL repository
and calculate function hash values within it, DB centris needs
115.1s on average to eliminate the redundant functions within
each TPL whereas DB iot only needs 0.1s to remove the
redundancy. As most detection tools adapt similarity com-
parisons to identify the reused TPLs, the database accuracy
significantly affects the search space and detection efficiency.
Specifically, the search space of DB iot is smaller than both
DBkwd and DBcentris, indicating that when using DBiot, much
fewer similarity comparisons are needed to identify one TPL
reuse. With frequent updates to TPLs, databases for TPL
reuse detection need to be updated and maintained easily.
However, the time needed to update DB centris is more than
100 hours. On the contrary, DBiot requires only a few minutes
to update, supported by hashing-index based elimination to
remove redundancy. Although TPLite also creates a database
for TPL reuse detection, its database creation requires large
storage to store excessive library details, including all function
details. Its storage capacity became overwhelmed when only
processing 1,000 TPLs, indicating that using TPLite to build a
database for TPLite is impractical.
Database Integration. To test how DB iot performs when in-
tegrate with state-of-the-art tools, we compared DB iot, DBkwd
and DB centris in detecting TPL reuses on the Top-10 IoT
projects in C/C++ from GitHub as the target programs. Details
of these projects are listed in Appendix B.
Table II shows the results when integrating Centris with the
three different databases. When using DB centris, Centris only
identified 71 TPL reuses; however, its performance improved
significantly, detecting 174 and 112 TPL reuses when leverag-
ing DB iot and DB kwd, respectively. Notably, although DB iot
has the smallest size, its comprehensiveness and specification
enabled Centris to detect more reuses than the other two larger
databases.
2) Vulnerability Segment Evaluation: We compared V UL-
TURE against the state-of-the-art CVE patch mapping tool
VFCFinder, commonly employed schemes Link Matching
(directly collect patch information from CVE/NVD refer-
ences) [46] and SNYK Database Retrieval [12], assessing their
mapping accuracy, time cost, and space cost, respectively. The
patch commits can be directly collected from CVE/NVD and
are assumed available for all the solutions.
We exclude PatchScout [41] and VCMatch [45] from the
comparison because both schemes demonstrably underperform
compared to VFCFinder [20], as discussed and evaluated in the
study.
Commit benchmark. We randomly selected 200 CVEs and
manually identified the corresponding patch commits using
information from the NVD website and project commits.
Overall, 158 (out of 200) CVEs have been labeled with the
corresponding patch commits and the other 42 (out of 200)
CVEs are labeled with “None” whose patch commits cannot
be found within the given CPE scope manually (from the last
vulnerable version to the fixed version).
Mapping accuracy. We quantified the number of patch com-
mits identified by each of the three methods and manually
validated the results. Table III presents the number of patch
commits identified by each method ( Detected) and the num-
ber of correctly identified patches confirmed through manual
verification (Confirmed). Additionally, to quantify the overall
performance of each method, we also considered their ability
to handle cases labeled with “None” and calculated the F1
score ( F1). As shown in the table, V ULTURE successfully
identified the highest number of validated patch commits
(124) while generating zero false alarms. For the 34 patch
commits that were not identified, we found that 33 were due
to the absence of any information related to the vulnerable
elements (files, functions, variables) in the CVE descriptions
for revealing vulnerability details. For instance, the description
of CVE-2007-0457 3 in the NVD is “ Unspecified vulnerability
in the IEEE 802.11 dissector ... ” , which provides no useful
information about the vulnerable elements. The one remaining
failed case occurred because the LLM ( GPT -4) was unable to
accurately identify the patch commit among the candidates in
Step 4 (IV-A3). Instances of this kind of failure are relatively
rare. In general, in terms of the F1 score, V ULTURE achieved
the highest F1 score among all approaches with a significant
advantage.
To prevent data bias and ensure even data distribution, we
divided the dataset into five groups and performed 5-fold group
validation to verify the performance of V ULTURE . V ULTURE
achieved F1 scores of 87.5%, 88.9%, 88.51%, 88.50%, and
86.11% in each validation round, respectively, demonstrating
its effectiveness.
Time and space cost. We compared the time and space
overhead of V ULTURE and VFCFinder. To evaluate the time
overhead performance, we randomly selected 50 CVEs that
all the two methods could successfully identify the patch
commits. For space overhead, we calculated the average space
expenditure required to match each CVE directly on the ground
truth dataset. The experimental results are shown in Table IV.
As indicated, V ULTURE exhibited the lowest time overhead
(in both average and median values) and the smallest space
overhead. In terms of space overhead, VFCFinder requires
cloning the GitHub repository locally to obtain candidate com-
mits, which results in significant additional space overhead. In
contrast, VULTURE accesses candidate commits via the GitHub
3https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2007-0457
10