1.  TPLFILTER Construction 2. TPL Reuse Identification
Similarity
Comparison
Function Hash 
Hashing
Birth-time Comparison
Path-name Comparison
Target Program
 Identification Optimization
3. 1-day Vulnerability Detection
CVE-Commit Mapping
Patch Commit
V1 V2 ...... Vn
V1.2
Release Slice
Reused
LibraryRedundant
Function
Elimination
Vulnerability
Report
Selection
TPL
Selection
TPL Hash
Flaw Report
Line Match
Chunk Match
Chunk Extraction
Code FormatSyntactic Analysis
Chunk-based Analysis
File Path
Version
Func Hashing
CVE ID
CPE
Patch Commit
 Reuse Report
TPL Summary
SynChunk Process
Candidate
Vulnerability
Extraction
Component 
Segment
Vulnerability 
Segment
Candidate Libraries
Public database
Birth Time
Description
Parsing
Commit
Mapping
LLM
Fig. 3: Workflow of V ULTURE
IV. V ULTURE
A. TPLF ILTER
To detect 1-day vulnerabilities introduced by TPL reuses,
VULTURE must 1) identify the reused TPLs in the target
program; 2) verify whether the reused TPL version is vulner-
able; 3) suggest if any potential patch is available. Therefore,
VULTURE is required to construct a database, containing the
TPLs commonly used by a platform and the corresponding
vulnerable and patch information as a detection reference.
1) TPL Selection: As TPLs vary across different plat-
forms, VULTURE executes TPLF ILTER to construct a database
containing TPLs specific to the targeted platform (e.g., IoT
firmware, Android, iOS). Since most open-source projects are
maintained and operated on GitHub, TPLF ILTER first collects
all prevalent libraries from GitHub or existing TPL databases,
such as OpenWRT [9] and Awesome Android [1]. To select
TPLs specific to the target platform, we manually created
a keyword list of the most commonly used keywords for
describing the target platforms. Through the keyword list,
TPLF ILTER performs keyword matching to determine if the
titles, tags, and descriptions of each collected TPL contain
any of the specified keywords. Additionally, TPLF ILTER
scans the project metadata, official websites of projects, and
README files to identify the keywords (e.g., system, server,
firmware) for non-library project exclusion. For each selected
TPL, TPLF ILTER clones them from GitHub and lists all the
published versions through git tag.
2) Component Segment Construction: Within the database,
TPLF ILTER gathers detailed information on each selected TPL
to construct the component segment. GitHub repositories and
official websites may provide a variety of information about the
TPL, including details about their functions, file names, license
information, and the creation time of each library (i.e., birth
time). However, we observed that file names are not unique
to every TPL and licenses are not formally organized by all
target programs, which may negatively affect the effectiveness
of TPL reuse detection. Alternatively, TPLF ILTER analyzes
functions declared in each TPL and their birth times to
build the database, For efficiency, rather than storing all the
complicated details of functions, TPLF ILTER calculates a hash
value for each function and stores them in the component
segment.
To minimize false alarms arising from string-matching in
the handling of custom patches, TPLF ILTER employs LSH to
process each function. LSH is a fuzzy hashing technique that
hashes similar input items into the same “buckets” with high
probability, thereby enhancing the accuracy of data compari-
son [25]. Hence, TPLF ILTER analyzes each TPL version and
extracts all functions with ctags. Then, it calculates the hash
value of each function.
Simultaneously, it executes git log to identify the birth
time of each function from the commit histories. Each function
is then represented as fc =< H, Birth >, where H is the
hash value of the function and Birth refers to its birth time.
Hence, each version of a TPL is comprised of the functions,
represented as FC = {fc(i)|1 ≤ i ≤ n}, where n is the
maximum number of functions included in the TPL version.
As a TPL A may invoke functions from another TPL B (i.e.,
A depends on B), such dependencies may lead to redundant
comparisons when analyzing function similarities.
Although some previous works (e.g., Centris [48] and
OSSFP [49]) also utilize LSH to calculate hash values, these
works identify redundant functions with hash value similar-
ity comparison rather than exact match identification. Such
schemes become inefficient when comparing functions on a
large scale. To eliminate redundant comparisons, TPLF IL-
TER employs a hashing-index based elimination method that
narrows down the scope by searching for functions with
identical hash values. Specifically, TPLF ILTER first identifies
the functions fc(i) and fc(j) by comparing hash values H(i)
and H(j). Among all the functions with the same hash values,
it selects the function with the earliest birth time and removes
the other functions.
3) Vulnerability Segment Construction: To support the de-
termination of whether the reused versions of TPLs contain
any vulnerabilities, TPLF ILTER collects all vulnerabilities
5