Page 4: strcpy(buf, input);
Page 4: - strcpy(buf, input);
Page 4: + strncpy(buf, input, 8);
Page 4: + if(strlen(input) < 8)
Page 4: strcpy(buf, input);
Page 4: hashed into a Bloom ﬁlter.
Page 5: (Bloom filter
Page 5: Hash n-tokens
Page 5: into Bloom filters
Page 5: Feature hashing
Page 5: 3) Hashes the n-token window into a set of hashes
Page 5: on each hashed n-token window. We report an
Page 5: Bloom ﬁlter we ﬁrst apply k independent hash functions of
Page 5: range {1..m}. For each hash h(x) = i, we set the i’th bit
Page 5: of y ∈S, we again apply the k hash functions and check
Page 5: if all the bits are 1. If at least one of the hashed bits is 0,
Page 5: because of collisions in hash functions. The false positive
Page 5: (m), the number of hash functions (k), and the number of
Page 6: noticed that as the number of hash functions used in a Bloom
Page 6: solution is to use a single hash function when creating the
Page 6: bitvectors for SIMILARITY, not multiple hash functions. A
Page 6: single hash function approach is called feature hashing. Jang
Page 6: et al. [22] show that feature hashing well approximates the
Page 6: hash is faster than multiple hashes used in typical Bloom
Page 6: ture hashing. ReDeBug then calculates the distance using
Page 6: the same algorithm. ReDeBug can also calculate the total
Page 6: The algorithm for ﬁnding bugs is similar to that for
Page 6: patched code clone detection, while we used feature hashing
Page 6: used a single algorithm. While conceptually more elegant,
Page 6: multiple hash functions, we would have a larger error rate
Page 6: than with feature hashing due to extra collisions from the
Page 6: extra hash functions. If we had used feature hashing instead
Page 6: also back up the difference between feature hashing and
Page 6: Luckily, the internals of implementing both feature hash-
Page 6: a single hash function and have a distance metric interface,
Page 6: and in the other we use multiple hash functions and export
Page 7: to be hashed into a Bloom ﬁlter. ReDeBug used 256KB-
Page 7: greater than 32. ReDeBug took advantage of 3 fast hash
Page 9: to 7, ReDeBug hashes every 7 consecutive tokens and each
Page 9: from the ﬁnal output.
Page 12: Fraction of shared n-grams
Page 12: Figure 9: Fraction of shared n-grams
Page 13: the algorithm for detecting code clones. This result lends
Page 13: using n-tokens. MOSS is based upon an algorithm called
Page 13: winnowing [28], a fuzzy hashing technique that selects a
Page 13: is that ReDeBug uses feature hashing to encode n-tokens
Page 13: ing for feature hashing for improved speed. This decision
Page 14: only for C and C++. It then hashes these tokens and assigns
Page 14: subsequence mining algorithm to detect code clones.
Page 14: Deckard and Deja Vu use locality sensitive hashing (LSH)
Page 14: feature hashing. Theoretical analysis shows feature hashing
Page 14: duplicates which are then compared using feature hashing
Page 14: http://www.cse.yorku.ca/∼oz/hash.
Page 15: Space/Time trade-offs in hash
Page 15: nomial nominal uniﬁcation algorithm.
Page 15: man. BitShred: feature hashing malware for scalable
Page 15: ford, Alex Smola, and S.V.N. Vishwanathan. Hash ker-

[NEEDS ALGORITHM REPAIR]
