Page 1: based on the original SZZ algorithm (i.e., an approach to identify
Page 1: to identify the inducing commits for vulnerabilities. Therefore, in
Page 1: Our proposed SZZ algorithm leverages the line mapping algorithms
Page 1: tate the true inducing commits and verify the vulnerable versions
Page 1: commits and correct vulnerable versions than the previous SZZ
Page 1: in terms of F1-score for identifying vulnerability-inducing commits
Page 1: refining vulnerable versions, our approach also achieves the best
Page 1: about vulnerabilities in their dependencies. The output of these
Page 2: vulnerable versions were taken from software vendors; whereas,
Page 2: conservative vulnerable versions would cause additional work for
Page 2: al. [38] proposed an approach, built on the inducing commits gen-
Page 2: erated by the original SZZ algorithm [51], to detect spurious claims
Page 2: on vulnerable versions in NVD. They revealed systematic spurious
Page 2: the original SZZ algorithm is designed to detect inducing commits
Page 2: There are many difficulties to identify the bug-inducing commits
Page 2: commits for CVE vulnerabilities and refine vulnerable versions
Page 2: based on inducing commits effectively.
Page 2: SZZ algorithm (called V-SZZ) for vulnerabilities to refine software
Page 2: commits. Then, we identify the vulnerable versions based on the
Page 2: inducing commits generated by V-SZZ. We also select the origi-
Page 2: nal SZZ algorithm and its three variants (AG-SZZ, MA-SZZ, and
Page 2: can correctly identify inducing commits for 88 and 59 vulnerabili-
Page 2: we first generate vulnerable versions based on the inducing com-
Page 2: the generated vulnerable versions are correct. Finally, we compare
Page 2: identify vulnerable versions based on the inducing commits gen-
Page 2: inducing commits. This dataset covers vulnerabilities from five
Page 2: (2) We propose an approach based on an improved SZZ algorithm
Page 2: effectively identify inducing commits for vulnerabilities and
Page 2: refine vulnerable versions based on the inducing commits gen-
Page 2: manual annotation for inducing commits for vulnerabilities and
Page 2: verification of vulnerable versions. Section 5 shows the results of
Page 2: our approach on identifying inducing commits, and refining vul-
Page 2: of duplicated changes on detecting vulnerable versions, the differ-
Page 3: previous studies to identify bug-inducing commits based on bug-
Page 3: by the bug-inducing commits [57]. In our study, we will use the
Page 3: commits and inducing commits [38]. Figure 1 depicts a motivating
Page 3: difficult for developers to determine the correct vulnerable versions.
Page 3: We apply the original SZZ approach to identify the inducing commit
Page 3: the inducing commit and the fixing commit are vulnerable. Since
Page 3: identify the tags of vulnerable versions (see Figure 1). Then, we
Page 3: find that the vulnerable versions can be summarized into ‘from 3.1
Page 3: inducing commits for some vulnerabilities. Figure 2 present another
Page 3: last modified the vulnerable line as the inducing commit (called
Page 3: commit as the true inducing commit in which the vulnerable line of
Page 3: on this inducing commit, we infer the vulnerable versions are ‘5.x
Page 4: Vulnerable Versions
Page 4: vulnerable versions. For example, the version information of CVE-
Page 4: vulnerable version using SZZ algorithm based on and find the
Page 4: some CVE vulnerabilities is spurious, and the vulnerable versions
Page 4: whether SZZ algorithms can effectively identify inducing commits
Page 4: rithms to identify inducing commits for vulnerabilities and refine
Page 4: the vulnerable versions effectively.
Page 4: Figure 3 presents the process of our approach. The input of our
Page 4: project. First, we apply an improved SZZ algorithm to identify
Page 4: inducing commits for this vulnerability. Then, we scan the project
Page 4: in the fixing commits and inducing commits. Finally, we infer the
Page 4: and inducing commits.
Page 4: the identification of many vulnerability-inducing commits. So, the
Page 4: current SZZ algorithms might not identify inducing commits for
Page 4: Therefore, we propose a modified SZZ algorithm called V-SZZ,
Page 4: aiming to identify inducing commits for vulnerabilities by going
Page 4: the previous commit using the git blame command. Similar to
Page 4: descendants commits, we first leverage the line mapping algorithm
Page 4: we continue to use the git blame command to go back to identify
Page 4: versions of the source code files. We implement the line mapping
Page 4: algorithm provided by Fan et al. [17].
Page 4: the evaluation (see Section 5). If the line mapping algorithm can
Page 4: dants commits, we continue going back by running the git blame
Page 4: command for the line. This process stops until the line mapping
Page 4: algorithm identifies the line as a new line, the source code file of
Page 4: We consider the earliest commit as the inducing commit for
Page 4: mits or inducing commits of vulnerabilities are often applied to
Page 4: To infer vulnerable versions accurately, we need to identify all the
Page 4: commits. If missing a fixing commit, some non-vulnerable versions
Page 5: git blame
Page 5: Line Mapping
Page 5: Inducing commits
Page 5: inducing commit, some vulnerable versions would be considered
Page 5: mits and their corresponding inducing commits. In a Git workflow,
Page 5: i.e., the vulnerability introduced by the inducing commits will be
Page 5: nerable versions are between the inducing commits and the fixing
Page 5: reachable to the inducing commits (denoted as Ci). A commit A is
Page 5: as Cf ). Then, we can get the set of the vulnerable versions Cv, i.e.,
Page 5: to the inducing commit. The vulnerable versions in the figure are
Page 5: marked as brown. Finally, the output of this step is a set of version
Page 5: ground truth linking vulnerabilities and the true inducing commits.
Page 5: commits. Then, we annotate the inducing commits for vulnerabili-
Page 5: and manually verify the vulnerable versions based on the anno-
Page 5: tated inducing commits. Finally, we present the results of manual
Page 5: ing commits for vulnerabilities and refine vulnerable versions ef-
Page 6: Vulnerability-Inducing Commits
Page 6: To annotate inducing commits for vulnerabilities, we follow the
Page 6: We use a similar approach to annotate the inducing commits for
Page 6: develop a web application that integrates the git blame tool. For
Page 6: Thus, we might get multiple inducing commits when there are
Page 6: annotated inducing commits as the true inducing commits because
Page 6: are vulnerable and the earliest inducing commits that contain the
Page 7: Figure 5: An example for annotating inducing commit from
Page 7: description about vulnerable versions in CVE automatically because
Page 7: vulnerable versions vary across projects, see the two motivating
Page 7: Based on the fixing commits and the inducing commits we an-
Page 7: The same two annotators who annotated the inducing commits
Page 7: verified vulnerable versions generated by our approach. For each
Page 7: of the “perfect test” to annotate the inducing commits. Many
Page 7: identify inducing commits for those fixing commits since they
Page 7: as or evolved from the lines of code in the inducing commits.
Page 7: Besides, the manual annotation for inducing commits with large
Page 7: since we cannot verify whether its vulnerable versions are right
Page 8: inconsistent with the manually verified vulnerable versions. Espe-
Page 8: Given all the inducing commits we annotated and the set of vulner-
Page 8: ability inducing commits detected by SZZ algorithms, we employ
Page 8: commits and the set of inducing commits detected by SZZ algo-
Page 8: proach on refining vulnerable versions affected by CVE vulnerabil-
Page 8: ities. Given a vulnerability vi, a set of tags of vulnerable versions
Page 8: are detected based on the annotated inducing commits and fixing
Page 8: commits, which are denoted as correctvi. For each SZZ algorithm,
Page 8: we also have a set of tags of vulnerable versions based on the in-
Page 8: Then, we compute the recall and precision of an SZZ algorithm
Page 8: on refining vulnerable versions. Here, recall indicates the ratio of
Page 8: the vulnerable versions detected by an SZZ algorithm to the whole
Page 8: true vulnerable versions, while precision indicates the accuracy
Page 8: of an SZZ algorithm on detecting vulnerable versions. Finally, we
Page 8: identifying inducing commits for vulnerabilities in C/C++ and Java
Page 8: the inducing commits detected by an SZZ algorithm contain the
Page 8: true inducing commit; see the column #Identified in the two tables.
Page 8: 19 and 6 more inducing commits that the best performing baseline
Page 9: Figure 6: An example of a failing line mapping.
Page 9: However, V-SZZ still failed to identify inducing commits for a
Page 9: bilities’ true inducing commits are not in the earliest descendants
Page 9: the modified lines. For C/C++ projects, the line mapping algorithm
Page 9: descendants commit, which is the true inducing commit.
Page 9: more true inducing commits for the vulnerabilities and outper-
Page 9: on refining vulnerable versions affected by the vulnerabilities in
Page 9: of cases in which the vulnerable versions are correctly inferred
Page 9: based on the inducing commits detected by an SZZ algorithm, de-
Page 9: vulnerabilities with correct vulnerable versions detected by SZZ
Page 9: with true inducing commits. This is because the inducing commits
Page 9: version of the true inducing commit. As shown in the table, our
Page 9: duplicated changes of the fixing commits and inducing commits.
Page 9: find that 8 and 11 vulnerabilities whose inducing commits we an-
Page 9: annotated dataset. We find that the detected vulnerable versions of
Page 9: mits with duplicated changes in the inducing commits, the number
Page 9: picked commits, some non-vulnerable versions (e.g. versions above
Page 10: accurate vulnerable versions.
Page 10: troduced the bugs, but they fail to identify inducing commits for
Page 10: a true positive if the set of bug-inducing commits generated by
Page 10: SZZ algorithms contains the true inducing commits; otherwise, we
Page 10: bug-inducing commits are introduced by non-semantic lines. For
Page 10: that V-SZZ cannot detect additional bug-inducing commits. But
Page 10: as the bug-inducing commit set, V-SZZ can detect one additional
Page 10: bug-inducing commit (the bug-fixing commit 78d23a in the project
Page 10: annotate the inducing commits for vulnerabilities. However, we
Page 10: we were not sure the true inducing commits. Also, we verified the
Page 10: vulnerable versions generated by our approach manually. To miti-
Page 10: to investigate the inducing commits for vulnerabilities. Liu et al.
Page 11: inducing commits and build a dataset to evaluate their proposed
Page 11: on identifying inducing commits for vulnerabilities and proposed
Page 11: an approach based on an improved SZZ algorithm to refine the
Page 11: algorithm (V-SZZ) to refine vulnerable versions for vulnerabilities.
Page 11: approach uses the fixing commits and the inducing commits for a
Page 11: vulnerability to determine its vulnerable versions. Additionally, our
Page 11: commits, making the results of vulnerable versions more accurate.
Page 11: inducing commits and verify the vulnerable versions for 172 vulner-
Page 11: the true inducing commits and correct vulnerable versions than
Page 11: for identifying inducing commits on both C/C++ and Java projects
Page 11: vulnerable versions, our approach also achieves the best perfor-
Page 12: pact of refactoring changes on the szz algorithm: An empirical study. In 2018 IEEE

[NEEDS ALGORITHM REPAIR]
