2222
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SOFTWARE ENGINEERING, VOL. 50, NO. 9, SEPTEMBER 2024
II. BACKGROUND AND RELATED WORK
In this section, we ﬁrst provide an overview of the original
SZZ algorithm, outlining its background and highlighting some
limitations related to ghost commits. Next, we study the variants
of the SZZ algorithm that have been proposed to improve its
precision and recall. Lastly, we discuss the application and
signiﬁcance of the SZZ algorithm and its variants within the
Software Engineering research community.
We focus on the eight SZZ algorithms that are considered
by Rosa et al. [28]: B-SZZ [1], AG-SZZ [2], DJ-SZZ [15],
L-SZZ [16], R-SZZ [16], MA-SZZ [12], RA-SZZ [13], RA-
SZZ* [14], as well as some implementation variants: PyDriller
(SZZ@PYD) [33], SZZ Unleashed [34], and OpenSZZ [35].
A. The Original SZZ Algorithm & Ghost Commits
SZZ, the name given to the algorithm initially introduced
by ´sliwerski, Zimmermann, and Zeller [1], was developed to
identify changes that induce bugs. In our forthcoming discus-
sion, we will follow Rosa et al. [28] and refer to this original
SZZ algorithm as B-SZZ. B-SZZ follows a core structure that
is shared with its subsequent variants: (1) identifying bug-
ﬁxing commits, followed by a ﬁltering process utilizing two
conﬁdence levels: syntactic and semantic; (2) mapping bug-
ﬁxing commits to their corresponding potential bug-inducing
commits; and (3) eliminating potential bug-inducing commits
that are unlikely to be the cause of bugs.
1) Identifying Bug-ﬁxing Commits:
In the initial stage,
B-SZZ endeavors to establish a relationship between a bug-
ﬁxing commit in the version control system (VCS) and the cor-
responding bug reports in the issue-tracking system (ITS). To
accomplish this, B-SZZ employs two independent conﬁdence
levels: a syntactic level, which infers links between a VCS log
and a bug report, and a semantic level, which validates these
links through bug report data.
For most software systems, there is no mandatory or default
link between bug reports in the ITS and the VCS. Thus, devel-
opers may forget to add such links. Rezk et al. [17] deﬁne the
missing bug-ﬁxing commits that SZZ implementations fail to
detect, where links were omitted, as Ghost Commit 0 (GC 0).
Herbold et al. [36] also ﬁnd that half of the bug-ﬁxing commits
identiﬁed by SZZ are incorrect due to the mislabeled issues
in the ITS (where developers incorrectly label issues as bugs,
while some are merely improvements, etc.) [37]. Herbold et al.
also ﬁnd that SZZ misses about one-ﬁfth of the bug-ﬁxing
commits.
This paper will not study the limitations of bug-ﬁxing commit
identiﬁcation, as: (1) previous work [38], [39], [40] has already
provided a comprehensive analysis and proposed tools to re-
cover GC 0’s missing links, and (2) the Linux kernel repository
requires developers to use the “Fixes:” tag along with the ﬁrst
12 characters of the SHA-1 ID when a patch addresses a bug
in a speciﬁc commit. Therefore, we can collect a “developer-
informed” Linux kernel dataset using the VCS without reliance
on the ITS.
2) Mapping: Once the bug-ﬁxing commits in the VCS have
been identiﬁed, B-SZZ proceeds to the second step, where it
Fig. 2.
A Remove Mapping Ghost (bug-ﬁxing commit 7fdbc5f).
Fig. 3.
An Add Mapping Ghost (bug-inducing commit 5a858e7).
maps the bug-ﬁxing commits to potential bug-inducing com-
mits, i.e., the commits that may have caused the bug. To do this,
B-SZZ ﬁrst employs CVS’s diff command.2 This command
is analogous to git show, as it identiﬁes the lines that have
been deleted or modiﬁed by a commit. Then, B-SZZ invokes
the annotate command (another CVS command, similar to git
blame, but that does not identify the corresponding lines in
earlier revisions) for each line to determine the most recent
commit that deleted or modiﬁed the line prior to the ﬁx. When
there are multiple removed or modiﬁed lines, multiple commits
can be mapped as potential bug-inducing commits. This paper
focuses on issues in the mapping step.
Tools such as CVS annotate and git blame cannot map bug-
ﬁxing commits that do not modify or remove lines to bug-
inducing commits. This situation is deﬁned as Mapping Ghost
type 1 (MG 1) by Rezk et al. (To give a more meaningful
naming for MG 1, we name it Remove Mapping Ghost in
this paper.) For example, in Fig. 2, bug-ﬁxing commit 7fdbc5f3
does not remove any lines and only added two lines in all the
changes.
Similarly, if a bug-inducing commit does not add lines, it
cannot be tracked by using blame on subsequently removed
lines, as blame can only track previously existing lines. This
situation is deﬁned as Mapping Ghost type 2 (MG 2) by
Rezk et al. (To give a more meaningful naming for MG 2, we
name it Add Mapping Ghost in this paper.) For instance, in
Fig. 3, bug-inducing commit 5a858e74 does not add any lines
and only removes two lines in all the changes.
3) Filtering: In the ﬁnal stage, B-SZZ discards the potential
bug-inducing commits that cannot have caused the bug, such
as those committed to the VCS after the bug was reported.
The potential bug-inducing commits that are not ﬁltered out
2When B-SZZ was proposed, the Concurrent Versions System (CVS) was
widely used for version control.
3https://github.com/torvalds/linux/commit/7fdbc5f014c3f71bc44673a2d6c5
bb2d12d45f25
4https://github.com/torvalds/linux/commit/5a858e79c911330678b5a9be91a
24830e94a0dc9
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:34:02 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
