LYU et al.: EVALUATING SZZ IMPLEMENTATIONS
2221
Fig. 1.
The motivating example of Tracing-Commit SZZ.
recent change, but are rather concealed deeper in the change
history.
To facilitate this exploration, we propose the Tracing-
Commit SZZ (TC-SZZ) algorithm, which iteratively uses git
blame until the initial commit is located, and then considers
all commits in the change history as potential bug-inducing
commits. Unlike all previous SZZ variants which identify only
a single bug-inducing commit for a deleted line. This favors
recall, but may increase the number of false positives as it
returns commits in the line’s change history that are not relevant
to the bug. For example, as shown in Fig. 1, TC-SZZ returns
all ﬁve commits in a line’s change history as potentially bug-
inducing commits, successfully identifying commit 40747f as
the bug-inducing commit. In contrast, B-SZZ only considers
the previous commit. Applying TC-SZZ to the 17,552 cases
that are not detected by the SZZ algorithms but do not in-
volve ghost commits revealed that 3,115 out of the 17,552
failure cases (17.7%) are located in the change history and
not the most recent change. Algorithms that skip over refac-
toring changes have the potential to identify such bug intro-
ducing commits more accurately, but refactoring detection is
language speciﬁc, and such approaches have only been devel-
oped for Java [29], [30], while the Linux kernel is entirely
C code.
For the remaining 14,437 bug-ﬁxing commits, 34.6% of the
failure cases are found in the function history but not in the
history of the lines that are changed by the bug-ﬁxing commit.
This means that the bug-inducing commit can be identiﬁed
by applying git log -L on the changed functions (referred to
as Function-Log Detection). For detailed examples, refer to
Section VI-C. Additionally, 27.5% of failure are found in the ﬁle
history but not in the history of the changed functions in that ﬁle.
Here, the bug-inducing commit can be found by applying git
log to the changed ﬁles (referred to as Within-File Detection).
Finally, 37.9% of failure are in the history of a ﬁle other than
the changed ﬁles (referred to as Cross-File Detection).
Experiments with ChatGPT: For the Function-Log De-
tection, Within-File Detection, and Cross-File Detection cases,
where the bug-inducing commit is not in the history of the
lines changed by the bug-ﬁxing commit, we experiment with
ChatGPT. As ChatGPT has exhibited potential in addressing
Software Engineering tasks [31], [32], we consider whether
ChatGPT, speciﬁcally the GPT-4 version, can help SZZ algo-
rithms identify bug-inducing commits for these failure cases.
Speciﬁcally, we use the commit log subject and body of the bug-
ﬁxing commit, as well as all of the changed function’s code,
as input for ChatGPT. For Within-File Detection and Cross-
File Detection, we leverage ChatGPT to help locate the bug-
inducing function or ﬁle based on the bug-ﬁxing commit, since
the function or ﬁle responsible for the bug is not known from
the bug-ﬁxing commits. Our aim is for ChatGPT to pinpoint
the speciﬁc line of code in the function that may have induced
the bug and thus caused the bug-ﬁxing commit. Given this
line of code, we can then apply an iterated git blame to it
to identify the bug-inducing commits. On 375 samples, for
identifying bug-inducing commits Function-Blame Detection
(a subcategory of Function-Log Detection, using git blame once
for identifying the bug-inducing commit), ChatGPT showed
increased efﬁcacy in recall (with a precision of 0.28, recall
of 0.62, and F1 of 0.39). However, when it came to dealing
with failure cases both in and out of the ﬁle history, ChatGPT’s
performance was notably less successful. This is partly due to
the challenge of a general-purpose Large Language Model in
inferring function names or ﬁles not explicitly referenced in the
bug-ﬁxing commit.
Overview: In summary, our paper makes the following
contributions:
• Dataset Creation. We identify the Linux kernel as a data
source and collect a developer annotated and validated
dataset of over 76K bug-ﬁxing commits, which we have
made publicly available.1
• Evaluation. We conduct a comprehensive evaluation of
six SZZ algorithms, revealing hidden dangers in real-world
usage scenarios and analyzing the impact of ghost commits
on the Linux kernel dataset.
• Further Analysis. We show that by utilizing TC-SZZ, we
can address 17.7% of the failure cases. We classiﬁed the
remaining failure situations as Function-Log Detection,
Within-File Detection, and Cross-File Detection.
• ChatGPT Efﬁcacy Assessment. We investigate the efﬁ-
cacy of ChatGPT in identifying bug-inducing commits in
the three failure situations.
The rest of this paper is organized as follows. In Section II,
we discuss the background and related work of our study.
In Section III, we discuss how we build the dataset of bug-
inducing commits. Section IV presents the design of our study.
Section V introduces TC-SZZ. In Section VI, we show the eval-
uation results and answer our research questions. In Section VII,
we explore the potential of ChatGPT to identify bug-inducing
commits. Section VIII discusses the reason of SZZ failures.
We discuss the threats to validity in Section IX. Finally, we
draw the conclusions of our work and present future directions
in Section X.
1https://doi.org/10.6084/m9.ﬁgshare.23889792.v2
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:34:02 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
