LYU et al.: EVALUATING SZZ IMPLEMENTATIONS
2233
Fig. 6.
Input Provided to ChatGPT for Commit 761e205 in Linux kernel.
In practice, we provide the entire function code to ChatGPT, however, space
constraints prevent us from including the full screenshot in the paper. The
complete screenshot is available in the replication package.
Fig. 7.
ChatGPT’s Output for Commit 761e205 in Linux kernel. If the
details in the ﬁgure are difﬁcult to discern, please refer to our replication
package.
For the Within-File Detection cases, we follow a two-step
method: (1) We ﬁrst use ctags21 to extract all function names
in a ﬁle. Subsequently, we pose the Prompt B in Table IX
to ChatGPT. We provide ChatGPT with the function names
extracted using ctags, instead of the entire code, because the
number of code tokens in a ﬁle often exceeds the token limit
set by ChatGPT. (2) We then apply the same method as in the
Function-Log Detection category for any correctly identiﬁed
function to ﬁnd the bug-inducing commits.
For the Cross-File Detection cases, we follow the three steps
shown in Fig. 5: (A) The initial step involves identifying the
ﬁle containing the bug-inducing commits. We pose the Prompt
21https://ctags.io
A in Table IX to ChatGPT. Given that the Linux kernel has
15,000 ﬁles and limited information is available in the commit
message, ChatGPT might have difﬁculty identifying an exact
ﬁle. We have observed that it could instead return a directory,
despite not having been prompted to do so, containing the code
affected by the bug-inducing commit. Hence, we evaluate Chat-
GPT’s performance based on the correctness of the identiﬁed
directory and ﬁle. (B) If ChatGPT correctly identiﬁes the ﬁle,
we adopt the same method as the ﬁrst step in the Within-File
Detection category to determine the function. (3) If the correct
function is determined by ChatGPT, we proceed with the same
method as for the Function-Log Detection category to identify
the bug-inducing commits.
B. Results
Since the Function-Blame
Detection category shares
similar principles with the SZZ algorithm, we adopt the SZZ al-
gorithm’s evaluation methodology, as detailed in Section IV-B,
to compute the precision, recall, and F1 for this category.
In contrast, the evaluation for the remaining three categories
(i.e., Function-Log Detection, Within-File Detection, Cross-
File Detection) diverges from the evaluation of the Function-
Blame Detection. Instead of adhering strictly to SZZ-based
principles, for these categories, we focused on assessing the
number of bug-ﬁxing commits that could ﬁnd their bug-
inducing commits (i.e., Recall) with the assistance of ChatGPT.
We also used the git log -L command to identify as many bug-
inducing commits as possible, aiming to evaluate the potential
of a git blame based approach augmented with ChatGPT. For
the Within-File Detection category, we evaluate three indicators
(Function, Line of code, and Recall) as returned by ChatGPT.
For the Cross-File Detection cases, we evaluate ﬁve indicators:
Directory, File, Function, Line of code and Recall.
The result of the ChatGPT experiment is shown in Table X.
For Function-Blame Detection, ChatGPT exhibits a high recall
of 0.62, comparable to that of B-SZZ on the complete Linux
dataset. The precision is, however, only 0.28, because Chat-
GPT selects from lines of all changed functions, resulting in a
substantially larger selection space, especially given that some
functions span hundreds of lines. For Function-Log Detection,
the recall of our ChatGPT method dips to 0.31. Regarding
Within-File Detection, ChatGPT successfully predicts the cor-
rect function in 32 out of 76 cases (42.1%). In 44 instances,
ChatGPT makes an incorrect prediction, and in ten other cases,
the prediction fails due to token limitations, no functions, or
ChatGPT’s inability to discern the correct function. Cross-
File Detection presents a signiﬁcant challenge as the commit
messages often lack sufﬁcient information to identify the ﬁle.
In over half the cases, ChatGPT could only return the directory
of the ﬁle that might contain the bug-inducing commits. How-
ever, we found that ChatGPT correctly predicts the directory in
65% of these cases. Furthermore, it successfully identiﬁes bug-
inducing commits in 11 cases where the bug-inducing commit
is not in the ﬁle modiﬁed in the bug-ﬁxing commit. In analyzing
the 11 successful cases of Cross-File Detections, we observed
that the majority of the pairs of bug-ﬁxing and bug-inducing
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:34:02 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
