LYU et al.: EVALUATING SZZ IMPLEMENTATIONS
2235
Fig. 8.
Comparative Outputs for the Same Input Across Different Models:
GPT-4, CodeT5+, and CodeGen2.0.
After using the same prompt with CodeT5+ and CodeGen2.0,
we found that neither model provided a reasonable answer
based on the bug-ﬁxing commit. For instance, when querying
CodeT5+ about Cross-File Detections, where the bug-inducing
commit is not in the same ﬁle as the bug-ﬁxing commit, we
sought to identify which ﬁle in the Linux kernel might be
responsible. Unlike GPT-4, which typically suggests potential
ﬁlenames or directories, CodeT5+ and CodeGen2.0 returned
a nonsensical sentence. For example, as shown in Fig. 8, all
Fig. 9.
Example of Failure Reason: Mapping Ghost.
three models were prompted to identify which Linux kernel
ﬁle might be the cause of the bug-ﬁxing commit 1e45d043 (as
illustrated in Fig. 8(a)). GPT-4 correctly identiﬁed the potential
directories related to the bug-inducing commit, and its response
is displayed in Fig. 8(b). In contrast, CodeT5+ repeated re-
sponded with “#PF error: [normal kernel read fault]” (Fig. 8(c)),
a sentence from the bug-ﬁxing commit itself, offering no insight
into the ﬁlename. CodeGen2.0’s response was also off target,
returning unrelated license content, as detailed in Fig. 8(d).
Similarly, with Function-Blame Detections, when attempting
to use prompts to have CodeT5+ or CodeGen2.0 pinpoint the
problematic line, both failed to specify a line, instead generating
an extensive amount of code.
Our results demonstrate a signiﬁcant limitation in the ca-
pabilities of current models, such as CodeT5+ and CodeGen,
to offer precise, context-relevant assistance in identifying bug-
inducing commits, particularly in complex scenarios involving
cross-ﬁle analysis and speciﬁc line identiﬁcation within large
codebases like the Linux kernel. It also motivates the need for
developing more sophisticated LLMs, incorporating instruction
tuning and domain knowledge, to improve performance in de-
tecting bug-inducing commits, possibly even surpassing GPT-
4’s capabilities.
VIII. DISCUSSION
Although we categorized the failures of SZZ algorithms
based on their location (i.e., function-log, within-ﬁle, or cross-
ﬁle detection) in Section VI-C, we did not explore the reasons
behind these failures, which could lead to improvements in the
SZZ algorithm. In this section, we give a brief discussion based
on our qualitative analysis.
(1) Mapping Ghost: This category of cases are similar to the
Remove Mapping Ghost situation, where the lines removed in
the bug-ﬁxing commit do not directly assist in identifying the
bug-inducing commit. However, they are crucial for resolving
the bug. For instance, as shown in Fig. 9, in the bug-ﬁxing
commit 5e154df,25 the ﬁx creates a wrapper that causes the
original function to be called via a function pointer (line 1818-
1821). Thus, it is necessary to change the name of the original
function (line 1655), and this is an integral part of the bug ﬁx.
However, the removed line in line 1655, while crucial for the
bug-ﬁx, does not assist in identifying the bug-inducing commit.
The core issue lies in the absence of a functionality rather than
a defect in the existing functionality.
25https://github.com/torvalds/linux/commit/5e154dfb4f9995096aa6d342df7
5040ae802c17e
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:34:02 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
