LYU et al.: EVALUATING SZZ IMPLEMENTATIONS
2225
Using git, we collect 78,384 potential bug-ﬁxing com-
mits with Fixes:. We further mine all bug-inducing com-
mits in each bug-ﬁxing commit. In the ﬁrst step, we use
[0-9a-f]{7,40} to ﬁnd the partial commit IDs (7-40 digits)
of potential bug-inducing commits. We exclude partial com-
mit IDs with fewer than seven characters to prevent ambi-
guity. In the second step, we search for the partial commit
IDs in the list of actual complete commit IDs in the repos-
itory. If the partial commit ID can be found anywhere as
a substring of a complete commit ID, we return the com-
plete commit ID as the bug-inducing commit. To investi-
gate the number of false positives in this step, we compare
our results with those obtained using the git rev-parse com-
mand, which returns the full hash from a partial commit ID.9
As a result of this comparative analysis (of 104 cases), we
observed two main issues that account for the differences
between our method and the git rev-parse command: (1) Over-
lapping Partial Commit IDs: In certain instances, a par-
tial commit ID is shared by multiple complete commit IDs,
leading to false positives. We manually veriﬁed such cases
and corrected 51. (2) Typos in Commit IDs: We found
that the remaining 55 cases were the result of typos in com-
mit IDs. Occasionally, commit IDs in the Linux kernel are
incorrect due to typos, such as missing characters, which
prevents git rev-parse from identifying the correct commit.
For example, the partial commit ID af4df655040 should ac-
tually be 3af4df655040, making git rev-parse unable to ﬁnd
3af4df65504088e9a7d20c0251e1016e521ad4fc. Searching for
partial commit IDs in the list accurately identiﬁed 55 of 56
cases. We encountered one instance where the commit did not
belong to any branch in the repository, being part of a fork
outside the repository. In the last step, we collect all the potential
bug-ﬁxing commits for which we can ﬁnd at least one bug-
inducing commit into the Bug-ﬁxing Commit Dataset. We
then collect those commits for which we cannot ﬁnd any bug-
inducing commits into the CSV ﬁle included in the replica-
tion package.
Our resulting Bug-ﬁxing Commit Dataset contains 76,046
commits from between Oct 24, 2013 and Nov 20, 2022 that
contain one or more properly formatted Fixes: annotations. The
Linux kernel does not have an associated bug tracker through
which we can validate that the annotated commits are ﬁxing
bugs. Nevertheless, the Fixes: annotation has, like the rest of
the commit, been subject to the Linux kernel review process.
Furthermore, we ﬁnd that over 99% of the Fixes: annotations
refer to existing commits.
We name our newly collected dataset KFC (Linux Kernel
Bug-Fixing Commits). KFC contains a one-to-many relation-
ship between bug-inducing commits and bug-ﬁxing commits,
as a single bug-inducing commit can lead to multiple future
bug-ﬁxing commits. Conversely, there is also a many-to-one
relationship, where a single bug-ﬁxing commit may be the result
of multiple bug-inducing commits.
9https://git-scm.com/docs/git-rev-parse
C. Veriﬁcation of the Dataset
To verify the quality of our dataset, we conduct a manual
analysis on a subset of the KFC dataset. This analysis aims to
conﬁrm that the “Fixes:” ﬁeld is indeed used in practice to point
to the cause of the bug, rather than mistakenly pointing to the
initial implementation of related functionalities.
In this study, we followed four steps to validate the subset of
the KFC dataset:
(i) Sampling: The complete KFC dataset includes 76,046
bug-ﬁxing commits. We selected a random sample of 383
cases to provide a statistically signiﬁcant representation,
aiming for a 95% conﬁdence level with a 5% margin of
error, according to standard sample size calculations.10
(ii) Preparation: Three annotators initially discussed and re-
ﬁned their approach to ensure consistent labeling, based
on an examination of a preliminary set of examples. This
led to the creation of a comprehensive set of labeling
guidelines.
(iii) Labeling: Following these guidelines, the dataset was
then labeled. One annotator was responsible for labeling
all 383 cases, while the other two split the complete set,
each labeling either 191 or 192 cases.
(iv) Discussion: Upon completion of labeling, the annotators
met to discuss and resolve all discrepancies.
After the preparation step, six categories were established
for the labeling process: (1) “Yes”: The bug-inducing commit
clearly points to the cause of the bug. (2) “Affected by other
changes”: External modiﬁcations led to the emergence of the
bug. (3) “Partial ﬁx”: An intermediate commit attempted to ﬁx
the bug but did not completely succeed. (4) “Introducing a new
function”: The commit introduced new functionality that was
later involved in a bug, but was not directly the cause. (5) “No”:
The bug-inducing commit does not point to the cause of the bug
and does not ﬁt into categories (2)-(4). Annotators are required
to mark the reasoning behind this classiﬁcation. (6) “Not sure”:
The annotator could not determine whether the bug-inducing
commit is related to the cause of the bug and is instructed to
mark the reasons for this uncertainty.
After the Labeling and Discussion steps, we found that 81%
(317 out of 383) of the sample cases fell into the “Yes” cate-
gory. Additionally, classiﬁcations for the remaining cases were
distributed as follows: 4% (15 out of 383) were categorized as
“Introducing a new function,” 2% (9 out of 383) as “Affected
by other changes,” and 3% (11 out of 383) as “Partial ﬁx.”
A further 2% (9 out of 383) of cases were labeled as “No,”
as the annotators could not discern a relationship between the
bug-ﬁxing and bug-inducing commits. Lastly, 7% (26 out of
383) of the cases were tagged as “Not sure,” due to the anno-
tators’ lack of expertise in the Linux kernel, which prevented
them from making judgments. Despite a small percentage of
cases not directly representing the cause of the bug, the vast
majority of the dataset accurately reﬂects the intended use of the
“Fixes:” ﬁeld.
10https://www.surveymonkey.com/mp/sample-size-calculator
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:34:02 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
