2226
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SOFTWARE ENGINEERING, VOL. 50, NO. 9, SEPTEMBER 2024
IV. STUDY DESIGN
The purpose of this study is to empirically evaluate the var-
ious implementations of the SZZ algorithm on the currently
largest dataset for SZZ evaluation and to investigate patterns
that cannot be identiﬁed by SZZ (i.e., how to improve the recall
of the SZZ algorithms), particularly Ghost Commits. To achieve
these goals, we formulate three research questions:
RQ1: How well do the different variants of SZZ perform
in identifying bug-inducing changes?
In our ﬁrst research question, we aim to examine the per-
formance of different SZZ variants on our dataset relative to
a previous study by Rosa et al. [28]. Our study involves a
dataset with more bug-ﬁxing commits than in previous studies.
Evaluating SZZ is crucial to ascertain if the prior studies’claims
remain valid in an updated and more comprehensive dataset
from a complete software project.
RQ2: What is the impact of Ghost Commits on the
behavior of SZZ in a real software project?
In our second research question, we aim to explore the effects
of ghost commits on the use of SZZ variants in a real software
project, We divide RQ2 into two speciﬁc questions: (1) How
frequently do ghost commits (Remove Mapping Ghost as bug-
ﬁxing commits, Add Mapping Ghost as bug-inducing commits)
occur? (2) How do ghost commits impact the SZZ algorithms?
RQ3: What other situations, besides Ghost Commits,
are undetectable by SZZ algorithms? In our ﬁnal research
question, we aim to identify additional situations where the SZZ
algorithms fail, apart from the Ghost Commit situation. Given
that SZZ algorithms are founded on the assumption that “a bug-
inducing change adds lines that are later removed by a ﬁx,”
we address two speciﬁc questions within RQ3: (1) Do all fail-
ure cases, besides Ghost Commits, adhere to this assumption?
(2) Beyond the previously studied situation, what other situa-
tions prevent SZZ from successfully identifying bug-inducing
commits?
A. Algorithm Selection & Data Collection
We conduct experiments on several variants of the SZZ al-
gorithm. Speciﬁcally, we adapt the main variants from the prior
study by Rosa et al. [28] to run on our dataset. Of these, we do
not use SZZ Unleashed since our commits are not associated
with an issue tracker; thus there is no issue date. We do not
use OpenSZZ since it needs a Jira URL as input. RA-SZZ∗
only works on Java as Refactoring Miner [30] can only detect
refactoring operations in Java ﬁles. Therefore we do not use
RA-SZZ∗because the Linux kernel is a C-based project. In
summary, we use B-SZZ, AG-SZZ, L-SZZ, R-SZZ, MA-SZZ,
and PyDriller (SZZ@PYD). We used the KFC dataset, featur-
ing the complete set of 76,046 Fixes: annotated bug-ﬁxes.
B. Data Analysis
Given the set of bug-inducing commits predicted by the
tested SZZ algorithms and the collected dataset, we evaluate
the accuracy of the tested SZZ algorithms using recall and
precision, two well-known Information Retrieval metrics [51].
We also use F1 score [52], which calculates the harmonic
mean of recall and precision. These metrics have been used
in previous studies to evaluate SZZ performance [28], [46].
The metrics for a bug-ﬁxing commits are deﬁned as follows,
where correctci is the ground truth of bug-ﬁxing commit ci,
i.e., the bug-inducing commits annotated by the original Linux
kernel developer, identiﬁedci is the bug-inducing commits of
bug-ﬁxing commit ci identiﬁed by the SZZ algorithms, and N
is the total number of bug-ﬁxing commits:
recall = 1
N
N

ci=1
|correctci ∩identiﬁedci|
|correctci|
precision = 1
N
N

ci=1
|correctci ∩identiﬁedci|
|identiﬁedci|
cF1 = 2 · recall × precision
recall + precision
We also analyze the complementarity of the SZZ variants
following previous work [28]. Given the set of evaluated SZZ
variants SZZ eval = {v1, v2, . . . , vn}, we compute their comple-
mentarity using the following metrics for each vi [53]:
correctvi∩vj = |correctvi ∩correctvj|
|correctvi ∪correctvj|
correctvi\(SZZ exp\vi) = |correctvi \ correct(SZZ exp\vi)|
|correctvi ∪correct(SZZ exp\vi)|
correctvi denotes the set of correct bug-inducing commits
predicted by the SZZ algorithm vi. correct(SZZexp\vi) de-
notes the correct bug-inducing commits predicted by all eval-
uated SZZ algorithms except for vi. correctvi∩vj represents
the overlap between the correct bug-inducing commits identi-
ﬁed by the SZZ algorithm vi and another SZZ algorithm vj.
correctvi\(SZZexp\vi), denotes the correct bug-inducing com-
mits that are only identiﬁed by the SZZ algorithm vi.
To analyze the frequency of each Remove Mapping Ghost
and Add Mapping Ghost, we use the same computation as Rezk
et al. [17]. Remove Mapping Ghost: the percentage of bug-
ﬁxing commits that do not remove lines and only add lines out
of all bug-ﬁxing commits. Add Mapping Ghost: the percentage
of commits that do not add lines and only remove lines out of all
commits. With respect to Add Mapping Ghost, we also report
the percentage of bug-inducing commits that do not add lines
and only remove lines out of the set of bug-inducing commits, as
these are the only commits that only remove lines that actually
have an impact on the SZZ results.
V. TC-SZZ
The fundamental premise of the SZZ algorithm is that “a bug-
inducing change adds lines that are later removed by a ﬁx.” In
other words, for a bug-ﬁxing commit, the SZZ algorithms use
the git show command to identify deleted or modiﬁed lines, and
the git blame command to identify the most recent change to
each such line. However, we discovered that some bug-inducing
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:34:02 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
