===== Page 001 =====
Computers & Security 121 (2022) 102828 
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect 
Computers & Security 
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/cose 
KRYSTAL: Knowledge graph-based framework for tactical attack 
discovery in audit data 
Kabul Kurniawan a , c , ∗, Andreas Ekelhart b , d , Elmar Kiesling a , Gerald Quirchmayr c , 
A Min Tjoa e 
a Vienna University of Economics and Business, Welthandelsplatz 1, Vienna, Austria 
b SBA Research, Floragasse 7, Vienna, Austria 
c University of Vienna, Währinger Straße 29, Vienna, Austria 
d University of Vienna, Kolingasse 14-16, Vienna, Austria 
e Vienna University of Technology, Favoritenstraße 9-11, Vienna, Austria 
a r t i c l e i n f o 
Article history: 
Received 10 August 2021 
Revised 10 June 2022 
Accepted 3 July 2022 
Available online 8 July 2022 
Keywords: 
Attack graph construction 
Log analysis 
Knowledge graph 
Attack discovery 
Cybersecurity 
Information security 
a b s t r a c t 
Attack graph-based methods are a promising approach towards discovering attacks and various tech- 
niques have been proposed recently. A key limitation, however, is that approaches developed so far are 
monolithic in their architecture and heterogeneous in their internal models. The inﬂexible custom data 
models of existing prototypes and the implementation of rules in code rather than declarative languages 
on the one hand make it diﬃcult to combine, extend, and reuse techniques, and on the other hand hin- 
der reuse of security knowledge – including detection rules and threat intelligence. KRYSTAL tackles these 
challenges by providing a knowledge graph-based, modular framework for threat detection, attack graph 
and scenario reconstruction, and analysis based on RDF as a standard model for knowledge represen- 
tation. This approach provides query options that facilitate contextualization over internal and external 
background knowledge, as well as the integration of multiple detection techniques, including tag prop- 
agation, attack signatures, and graph queries. We implemented our framework in an openly available 
prototype and demonstrate its applicability on multiple scenarios of the DARPA Transparent Computing 
dataset. Our evaluation shows that the combination of different threat detection techniques within our 
framework improved detection capabilities. Furthermore, we ﬁnd that RDF provenance graphs are scal- 
able and can eﬃciently support a variety of threat detection techniques. 
©2 0 2 2 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. 
This is an open access article under the CC BY license ( http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/ ) 
1. Introduction 
In the face of complex cyber attacks, it is crucial to not only de- 
tect attacks as early as possible, but also to understand their con- 
text and implications in order to choose an appropriate response 
strategy. To protect themselves, organizations typically rely on de- 
fenses such as Intrusion Detection System. These systems are use- 
ful in that they can point to indicators of compromise and issues, 
but they also typically generate a large number of false positive 
alerts. To identify relevant alerts, it is necessary to investigate their 
context, which typically requires substantial manual effort and ex- 
pertise ( Hossain et al., 2017; Milajerdi et al., 2019b ). As the sheer 
∗ Corresponding author at: Vienna University of Economics and Business, 
Welthandelsplatz 1, Vienna, Austria. 
E-mail address: kabul.kurniawan@wu.ac.at (K. Kurniawan) . 
volume of low-level log data grows, manual analyses become in- 
creasingly infeasible. 
In this context, system-level provenance graphs, which rely on 
audit data represented in graph structures, have recently attracted 
considerable attention in the security research community as a 
promising tool with strong abstract expression ability and rela- 
tively high eﬃciency ( Li et al., 2021 ). Such provenance graphs rep- 
resent relationships between the control ﬂow and data ﬂow be- 
tween subjects (e.g., processes, threads) and objects (e.g., ﬁles, 
network sockets) in the system through a timestamped directed 
graph. Based on that, a large variety of techniques have been de- 
veloped to automatically detect and connect attack steps in such 
graphs. 1 
Motivating Example Figure 1 depicts the provenance graph of 
an exﬁltration attack carried out in the context of the DARPA 
1 cf. Li et al. (2021) for a recent survey. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2022.102828 
0167-4048/© 2022 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license ( http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/ ) 

===== Page 002 =====
K. Kurniawan, A. Ekelhart, E. Kiesling et al. Computers & Security 121 (2022) 102828 
Table 1 
Comparison of attack discovery approaches . ( DS ) refers to domain-speciﬁc, ( N/A ) refers to not available, ( ✓ ) refers to provided, ( ✗ ) refers to not provided. 
Approaches Data Models 
Detection 
Techniques 
Data Reduction 
Techniques 
Attack 
Reconstruction 
High-Level 
Attack 
Summarization 
Background 
Knowledge 
Linking 
Published 
Prototype 
Backtracking ( King and 
Chen, 2003a ) 
Custom Graph Naive 
Backtracking 
✗ ✓ ✗ ✗ N/A 
AIQL ( Gao et al., 2018b ) Relational DB DS Query 
Language 
✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ N/A 
SAQL ( Gao et al., 2018a ) Relational DB DS Stream 
Query 
✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ N/A 
POIROT ( Milajerdi et al., 
2019a ) 
Custom Graph Graph 
Alignment 
✗ ✓ ✗ ✗ N/A 
HOLMES ( Milajerdi et al., 
2019b ) 
Custom Graph HSG/Severity 
Score 
✗ ✓ ✓ ✗ N/A 
RapSheet ( Hassan et al., 
2020 ) 
Custom Graph EDR/Threat 
Score 
CPR ( Xu et al., 2016 ) ✓ ✓ ✗ N/A 
Zou et al. (2020) Custom Graph Pre/Post 
Condition 
✗ ✗ ✓ ✗ N/A 
SLEUTH ( Hossain et al., 
2017 ) 
Custom Graph Tag 
Propagation 
✗ ✓ ✗ ✗ N/A 
MORSE ( Hossain et al., 
2020 ) 
Custom Graph Tag 
Propagation 
CSR ( Hossain et al., 
2018 ) 
✓ ✗ ✗ N/A 
CyGraph ( Noel et al., 2016 ) NoSQL Graph DS Query ✗ ✓ ✗ ✓ ✓ 
UCO ( Syed et al., 2016 ) RDF Graph SPARQL Query ✗ ✗ ✗ ✓ ✓ 
Ekelhart et al. (2018) RDF Graph SPARQL Query ✗ ✗ ✗ ✓ ✓ 
Kurniawan et al. (2020) RDF Graph SPARQL Query ✗ ✓ ✗ ✓ ✓ 
SLOGERT ( Ekelhart et al., 
2021 ) 
RDF Graph SPARQL Query HDT ( Fernández et al., 
2013 ) 
✗ ✗ ✓ ✓ 
KRYSTAL RDF Graph Hybrid HDT ( Fernández et al., 
2013 ) 
✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ 
linking to background knowledge (e.g., assets, vulnerabilities, cy- 
berthreat intelligence, etc.); such contextualization can help ana- 
lysts to identify and assess high-level attack scenarios in order to 
understand their signiﬁcance, cause, and impact. (iv) We provide 
an open source prototype of the system 4 and evaluate it on a well- 
established large-scale dataset ( DAR, 2021 ). 
The remainder of this paper is structured as follows: 
Section 2 discusses related work in threat detection and attack 
graph construction, Section 3 provides the necessary background 
on knowledge graph concepts that are central to the developed ap- 
proach; Section 4 puts forth a set of requirements as a basis of our 
proposed solution; Section 5 discusses the conceptualization of our 
approach; Section 6 introduces our knowledge graph-based attack 
detection framework, and Section 7 discusses the implementation 
and introduces application scenarios; we evaluate our approach in 
Section 8 , discuss the results in Section 9 and conclude with an 
outlook on future research in Section 10 . 
2. Related work 
In this article we focus on misuse-based intrusion detec- 
tion techniques, which search for well-deﬁned patterns of at- 
tack ( Kumar, 1996 ). Consequently, we organize related work on 
threat detection and attack graph construction into the following 
categories: (i) provenance-based tracking, (ii) tactical attack con- 
struction, (iii) graph queries, and (iv) ontology-based threat detec- 
tion. Table 1 summarizes and compares existing attack discovery 
approaches, which will be discussed in the following sections. 
Provenance-based Tracking Seminal work on provenance-based 
attack detection ( King and Chen, 2003a ) introduced the idea to 
investigate attacks through backward tracking. A major limita- 
tion of initial “naive” backtracking approaches is that they are 
based on coarse-grained provenance data. This typically introduces 
a large number of false dependencies in the graph, a problem 
known as “dependence explosion” ( Hossain et al., 2018 ). Several re- 
4 https://github.com/sepses/Krystal 
searchers introduced approaches to mitigate this problem through 
ﬁned-grained taint-tracking or information ﬂow tracking ( Ji et al., 
2017; 2018; Kemerlis et al., 2012 ). Although these approaches 
can accurately distinguish suspicious and benign nodes, scaling 
them remains a challenge ( Hossain et al., 2018 ). Another ap- 
proach tried to solve this problem by introducing tag-propagation . 
SLEUTH ( Hossain et al., 2017 ), for instance, introduced trustwor- 
thiness tags (t-tags) and conﬁdentiality tags (c-tags) that are used 
to assign suspicion levels to nodes and propagate them through 
the provenance graph. In combination with a policy framework, 
these tags can trigger alarms and successfully identify unseen at- 
tacks in real-time and with low overhead. However, SLEUTH suffers 
from numerous false-positives for attacks with long-running pro- 
cesses ( Hossain et al., 2020 ). MORSE ( Hossain et al., 2020 ) extends 
this approach by introducing tag-attenuation and tag-decay to cut 
down false alarms by more than an order of magnitude. To reduce 
the provenance graph, it indexes all subjects and objects using a 
numeric index. However, none of these approaches leverage stan- 
dard representations, but rely on custom graph models and hard- 
coded rules and policies. Consequently, they are diﬃcult to expand 
and it is diﬃcult to investigate the resulting attack graphs further, 
e.g., by linking them to background knowledge. Furthermore, both 
SLEUTH and MORSE do not explicitly represent the high-level con- 
text of attacks. As a result, it becomes exceedingly diﬃcult to iden- 
tify attacks as attack graphs become more complex. 
Our approach introduces a standard and ﬂexible graph model 
based on an ontology. Hence, with a standard graph model and 
declarative rules and policies, our approach can produce compact 
attack graphs and also ﬂexibly integrate and link them to back- 
ground knowledge. For graph reduction, we use (Header, Dictio- 
nary, Triples) HDT ( Fernández et al., 2013 ), a compact RDF-based 
structure that keeps large provenance graph compressed. We dis- 
cuss it in more detail in Section 6.1 . 
Tactical Attack Construction Provenance-based tracking typi- 
cally relies on a bottom-up approach, i.e., identifying attacks based 
on the causality relationship of system objects, such as processes, 
ﬁles, and sockets. By contrast, several approaches follow a top- 
3 

===== Page 003 =====
K. Kurniawan, A. Ekelhart, E. Kiesling et al. Computers & Security 121 (2022) 102828 
down strategy, i.e., they aim to identify attacks based on high- 
level models of APT campaigns (e.g. techniques, tactics) and/or kill- 
chain phases. HOLMES ( Milajerdi et al., 2019b ) introduced threat 
scores and 16 techniques, tactics, procedures (TTP) proposed by 
the authors to construct a high-level scenario graph (HSG) from 
a provenance graph. This approach can mitigate dependence ex- 
plosion and offers a map to TTP. However, its ability to identify 
attacks with only a single APT stage is limited ( Hossain et al., 
2020 ). RapSheet ( Hassan et al., 2020 ) is an attack graph con- 
struction approach based on alert correlation from a commer- 
cial Endpoint Detection and Response (EDR) tool. By incorporating 
67 EDR rules, it can relate alerts into a tactical provenance graph 
based on MITRE’s ATT&CK TTPs. For graph reduction, it implements 
causality-preserved reduction (CPR) ( Xu et al., 2016 ) that merges 
edges with identical operations and keeps only the edge with the 
latest timestamp. Our approach also facilitates TTP mappings, but 
we rather incorporate rules from open, standard and community- 
driven detection rules (i.e., SIGMA Roth and Patzke, 2021 ), thus 
avoiding a dependence on a commercial platform. 
Another recently proposed approach ( Zou et al., 2020 ) uses 
tactic-centric Advanced Persistent Threat (APT) recognition to de- 
tect APT tactics based on APT techniques’ prerequisites (i.e., re- 
quirements for techniques to be matched to a tactic) and post- 
conditions (i.e., the result of a technique, e.g., malicious process 
being created). The identiﬁed attack techniques are mapped to 
speciﬁc tactics and ranked based on their tactic matching. This 
approach shows the detected tactics and techniques, but it does 
not represent the complete attack scenario, i.e., attack sequences, 
causality and connections. 
In our work, we propose a hybrid approach that facilitates both 
bottom-up and top-down techniques for threat detection and at- 
tack construction in a single, modular framework. Our approach 
generates detailed attack graphs from low-level events but also fa- 
cilitates linking and contextualization to existing high-level, tacti- 
cal attack patterns such as MITRE ATT&CK TTPs. 
Graph Queries A number of research efforts resulted in query- 
based and graph-matching approaches to detect and construct 
attack scenario graphs from historical audit log data stored in 
databases. AIQL ( Gao et al., 2018b ) introduced a domain-speciﬁc 
model and query language to analyze and investigate attacks. SAQL 
( Gao et al., 2018a ) extends AIQL for stream-based querying over 
system monitoring data. POIROT ( Milajerdi et al., 2019a ) proposed 
an attack graph detection approach based on manually extracted 
graph patterns from previously seen attacks, e.g., in threat intel- 
ligence reports. In our approach, we rely on a semantic model, 
which facilitates graph matching through semantic graph queries 
(formulated in SPARQL). Furthermore, our RDF-based provenance 
graph can be easily queried and linked to internal and external 
background knowledge through SPARQL query federation. 
Ontology-based Threat Detection A number of research ef- 
forts investigated ontologies to support cybersecurity and threat 
detection. Early work ( Pinkston et al., 2003 ) developed an on- 
tology for the intrusion detection domain based on DAML+OIL 
( Mcguinness et al., 2002 ) to extend simple IDS taxonomies with 
machine-interpretable deﬁnitions. Ref. More et al. (2012) extended 
this IDS Ontology to incorporate cybersecurity-related information 
from heterogeneous resource (e.g., web texts, reports). 
Uniﬁe Cybersecurity Ontology (UCO) ( Syed et al., 2016 ) in- 
troduced a more instance-data driven approach to construct a 
rich cybersecurity ontology by integrating cybersecurity standards 
such as STIX (2021) , CyBox (2021) , CVE (2021) , CAPEC (2021) , 
CVSS (2021a) , and CVSS (2021b) . UCO provides integration from 
heterogeneous sources and supports reasoning (e.g. using prede- 
ﬁned rules to infer attacks). However, UCO and other previously 
proposed ontologies were designed to support intrusion detection 
rather than attack graph construction. More recent works such as 
Kenaza and Aiash (2016) proposed an ontology that supports IDS 
alert correlation. Through the use of reasoning rules, it can infer 
and classify IDS alerts (i.e., false alert, unclassiﬁed, plausible at- 
tack) based on existing vulnerability information. As the focus is 
solely on attack detection, however, this proposed approach does 
not result in attack graphs. 
In prior work, we proposed a modular ontology ( Ekelhart et al., 
2018 ) that can harmonize and integrate heterogeneous log 
sources (e.g., Syslog, Auth log, Apache log). Subsequent work 
( Kiesling et al., 2019 ) facilitates forensic analyses of arbitrary 
logs and contextualizes them with external background knowl- 
edge (e.g. CPE, CVE, CVSS, CWE, and CAPEC) in a federated settings 
( SPARQL, 2021 ). SLOGERT ( Ekelhart et al., 2021 ) extends this pre- 
vious work with the ability to construct knowledge graphs auto- 
matically from arbitrary raw log messages. It identiﬁes, links, and 
enriches entities in log sources with background knowledge. In this 
work, we extend and enhance our previous work on security on- 
tologies to integrate events from heterogeneous log sources, repre- 
sent them in attack scenario graphs, and link them to background 
knowledge. 
3. Background 
In this section, we introduce knowledge graphs as a conceptual 
foundation of our approach. 
Knowledge Graph A knowledge graph is a directed, labeled 
graph G = (V, E) where V is a set of vertices (nodes) and E is a 
set of edges (properties). A single graph is usually represented as 
a collection of triples T = < s p o > where s is a subject , p is a 
predicate , and o is an object . 
RDF, RDF-S, OWL Resource Description Framework (RDF) is a 
W3C 5 standard data model to represent knowledge graphs. In RDF, 
a subject is a resource identiﬁed by a unique identiﬁer (URI) or a 
blank-node, an object can be both resource, blank-node or literal 
(e.g. String, number), and predicate is a property deﬁned in an on- 
tology and must be a URI. RDF-S (Resource Description Framework 
Schema) 6 is a W3C standard data model for knowledge representa- 
tion. It extends the basic RDF vocabulary with a set of classes and 
RDFS entailment (inference patterns). 7 OWL (Ontology Web Lan- 
guage) 8 is also a W3C standard for authoring ontologies. We use 
RDF-S and OWL to represent our system-call provenance ontology. 
We discuss this in more detail in Section 5.2 . 
Semantic Reasoning One of the central ideas of both OWL and 
RDF-S is that they enable reasoning over a knowledge graph. This 
is an important aspect and enables us to automatically infer new 
knowledge based on existing facts (entities and their relationships). 
We leverage several built-in RDF-S and OWL reasoning rules in 
our approach as discussed in Section 5.3 , which are based on the 
foundation of description logics ( Horrocks, 2005 ). Furthermore, in 
our approach, semantic reasoning is used to simplify RDF map- 
pings during the provenance graph building process (discussed in 
more detail in Section 6.1 ) and to reduce the query complexity, e.g., 
for attack reconstruction i.e. backward-forward chaining mechanism 
(discussed in Section 6.3 ). 
SPARQL SPARQL 9 is a W3C query language to retrieve and ma- 
nipulate data stored in RDF. It offers rich expressivity for com- 
plex queries such as aggregation, subqueries, and negation. Fur- 
thermore, SPARQL provides capabilities to express queries across 
multiple distributed data sources through SPARQL query federa- 
5 https://www.w3.org/standards 
6 https://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-schema/ 
7 https://www.w3.org/TR/rdf11-mt/ 
8 https://www.w3.org/TR/owl2-overview/ 
9 https://www.w3.org/TR/sparql11-overview/ 
4

===== Page 004 =====
K. Kurniawan, A. Ekelhart, E. Kiesling et al. Computers & Security 121 (2022) 102828 
tion. 10 In the security context, this is a major beneﬁt, as security- 
relevant information is typically dispersed across different sys- 
tems and networks and requires the consideration of e.g., different 
log sources, IT repositories, and cyberthreat intelligence sources 
( Kurniawan et al., 2020 ). 
4. Requirements 
Based on our analysis of the limitations of the state of the art 
(cf. Section 2 ), we identify the following set of requirements for the 
construction of a modular framework for knowledge graph-driven 
tactical attack discovery. 
R1. Contextualization 
Investigating and prioritizing security alerts, which typically 
include a large number of false positives, requires extensive 
security domain knowledge to understand the context of an 
alert ( Sarker et al., 2020 ). This makes it necessary to contextualize 
information in the provenance graph with appropriate background 
knowledge, which necessitates a ﬂexible data model. As an exam- 
ple, important contextual information on the system under eval- 
uation includes installed software and patch versions of the host 
where an alert has been raised. Existing approaches (e.g., Hossain 
et al., 2020; Milajerdi et al., 2019a ) typically hard-code some con- 
text information (e.g., external networks and software), whereas 
the majority currently ignores them altogether. To overcome these 
limitations, the ability to contextualize provenance graphs with 
background knowledge on the system under investigation is a key 
requirement for our framework. 
R2. Reusability and Extensibility Reusability – e.g., of attack 
patterns and resulting graphs –a n d extensibility – e.g., of de- 
tection, reconstruction, and summarization techniques –h a v e not 
been design priorities in existing monolithic solutions for prove- 
nance based log analysis. Consequently, approaches each rely on 
their own data structures developed speciﬁcally for each approach, 
While this allows for some optimization, it makes it diﬃcult to 
reuse and extend methods, techniques, information, and results. 
The lack of uniﬁed data formats as a (more speciﬁc) aspect of this 
requirement has also been highlighted as a major limitation of the 
state of the art in a recent survey ( Li et al., 2021 ). To tackle this 
limitation, the developed framework should – while offering ad- 
equate performance –m a k e it possible to: (i) formulate and ex- 
change rules for detection, alerting, and attack graph reconstruc- 
tion in a declarative language, (ii) exchange instances of prove- 
nance graphs in a standard representation, (iii) query the prove- 
nance graphs in a standard language, (iv) incorporate and exchange 
threat information, and (v) reuse and combine analytic techniques. 
R3. Threat intelligence linking Connecting isolated events to re- 
construct a complete attack scenario is an important step to under- 
stand the relevance and impact of alerts. In this context, an ability 
to link low-level threat evidence to phases of complex multi-stage 
attacks would be highly beneﬁcial. While some existing approaches 
( Hassan et al., 2020; Milajerdi et al., 2019b; Zou et al., 2020 ) aim to 
identify steps and associate them with high-level APT phases, they 
do not take advantage of the abundance of available Cyber Threat 
Intelligence (CTI) information available in external sources such as 
MITRE ATT&CK ( Mitre, 2021 ), which offers links to Common Vul- 
nerabilities and Exposures (CVE) ( CVE, 2021 ), Common Weakness 
Enumeration (CWE) ( CWE, 2021 ), and others. We therefore deﬁne 
the ability to leverage such connections and provide integrated 
querying capabilities as a key requirement for the developed ap- 
proach. This will facilitates abstraction from low-level event graphs 
to higher level techniques and tactics, provide additional informa- 
10 https://www.w3.org/TR/sparql11-federated-query/ 
tion for prioritization, impact assessment and mitigation, and make 
tedious attack investigations more eﬃcient and effective. 
R4. Cross-platform Interoperability Integrating provenance 
data from heterogeneous sources and constructing integrated at- 
tack graphs spanning multiple systems would be highly beneﬁcial 
in the face of complex multi-host/multi-platform attacks ( Li et al., 
2021 ). This necessitates a uniﬁed provenance representation that 
can abstract from speciﬁcs of individual platforms. 
5. Conceptualization 
In this section, we describe the conceptualization of our ap- 
proach and the use of inference for provenance graph construction. 
5.1. System-Call provenance representation 
Provenance graphs are a highly effective representation to keep 
track of information ﬂows ( Li et al., 2021 ). They represent inter- 
actions between objects as events. Each event involves a subject , 
i.e., a system object (e.g., a process, thread) that performs a par- 
ticular operation (e.g., write, read, send) on an object (e.g., ﬁle, 
socket, registry). As objects typically appear in multiple events, 
a graph emerges. Although system-call provenance is represented 
similarly across different existing approaches ( Hassan et al., 2020; 
Hossain et al., 2017; 2020; Milajerdi et al., 2019b ), no formal and 
standardized representation (ontology) exists. Instead, existing ap- 
proaches typically use ad-hoc and hard-coded data models which 
limits their interoperability, reusability and extensibility. 
5.2. KRYSTAL Provenance ontology 
We propose the KRYSTAL ontology 11 as as t a n d a r d representa- 
tion for system-call provenance graphs. Key beneﬁts of using on- 
tologies is the ability to share a common understanding – includ- 
ing concepts and structure, making assumptions explicit, facilitat- 
ing semantic reasoning, and promoting concept reuse ( Noy and 
McGuinness, 2001 ). Furthermore, the use of an ontology for prove- 
nance graph representation makes it easy to integrate background 
knowledge and unify the conceptual model across different threat 
detection approaches. 
In developing the KRYSTAL ontology, we followed a hybrid ap- 
proach, i.e., using bottom-up and top-down approaches concurrently 
( Noy and McGuinness, 2001 ). Bottom-up, we started by analysing 
low-level data structures from applications (e.g., auditlog) and 
identifying their entities and relations. Top-down, we considered 
attack patterns from existing cyberthreat intelligence sources (e.g., 
MITRE ATT&CK Mitre, 2021 ) and compared our ontology to existing 
non-ontological provenance models/schemas. Our developed ontol- 
ogy is able to represent low-level system-call provenance data and 
link it to high-level attack patterns (cf. Section 6.4 ). 
Figure 2 depicts an excerpt of the KRYSTAL Ontology centered 
around core concepts such as User , Host , System Object . 
The latter represent system entities such as Process es, File s, 
and Socket s. We assign each system object so to a class 
(identiﬁed by rdfs:Class ) and potential sub-classes (identi- 
ﬁed by rdfs:subClassOf ). Each system object so is a ver- 
tex v and the relations between system objects (e.g., writes , 
isReadBy , sends , etc.) are represented via edges e (identiﬁed by 
owl:ObjectProperty ). 
The SystemObject class represent system entities in general. It 
has three sub-classes such as Process , File and Socket . The Pro- 
cess class represents a running process in a system (e.g. ﬁrefox, 
ssh, etc.) while the File class represents a ﬁle (e.g., system ﬁle, ap- 
plication ﬁle, etc.). We introduce kry:writes , kry:isReadBy 
11 https://w3id.org/sepses/vocab/event/log/ 
5 

===== Page 005 =====
K. Kurniawan, A. Ekelhart, E. Kiesling et al. Computers & Security 121 (2022) 102828 
Fig. 2. Krystal Ontology - nodes represent concepts (classes) and edges represent 
the class relationship (properties). 
Table 2 
RDFS & OWL Reasoning Rules. 
Rule Premise Conclusion 
rdfs2 e 1 (v 1 , v 2 ) , rdfs:domain (e 1 , X) v 1 ∈ X
rdfs3 e 1 (v 1 , v 2 ) , rdfs:range (e 1 , Y ) v 2 ∈ Y 
rdfs7 e 1 (v 1 , v 2 ) , rdfs:subPropertyOf (e 1 , e 2 ) e 2 (v 1 , v 2 ) 
owl: InverseOf e 1 (v 1 , v 2 ) , owl:inverseOf (e 1 , e 2 ) e 2 (v 2 , v 1 ) 
and kry:isExecutedBy , kry:deletes , kry:mmap proper- 
ties to represent links between Process class and File class. 
The Socket class represents a network connection (combination 
of an IPAddress and Port ). We deﬁned kry:sends and 
kry:isReceivedBy properties that link the Process class to the 
Socket class. 
We also deﬁned User , a class that describes user of a system. 
It has three sub-classes, i.e., (i) RootUser , that represents the root- 
level user, (ii) SystemUser , represents the system-level user, (iii) 
LocalUser , represents the local-level user. 
We also deﬁned Host class that represent a host machine. The 
kry:hasUser property connects Process class to the User class, 
while the kry:originatesFrom property links it to Host class. 
Finally, we also deﬁned several other classes such as Executable 
class that identiﬁes an executable ﬁle and IPAddress that repre- 
sents an IP Address. The kry:hasExe property connects Process 
to Executable and kry:hasHostIP that links Process to IPAd- 
dress . 
Furthermore, we introduce a provenance relation (identiﬁed by 
kry:provRel ) that self-links to SystemObject . It is a generic, 
upper-level relation property that is used to represent provenance 
relationships between system objects (e.g., socket to process, pro- 
cess to ﬁle, ﬁle to process). This provenance relation is automati- 
cally inferred from more speciﬁc relation properties, as explained 
in the following. 
5.3. Inference features in KRYSTAL ontology 
The KRYSTAL ontology uses the RDF-S entailment and OWL rea- 
soning rules summarized in Table 2 for provenance graph con- 
struction. 
rdfs2 & rdfs3 These rules are used to automatically infer the 
speciﬁc type of a given system object based on its relations. 12 
For example, as depicted in Fig. 3 , system object :Firefox 13 
has the relation kry:writes to another system object 
12 We represent objects with different colors: orange for processes, purple for ﬁles, 
blue for sockets, and transparent-dotted circles for inferred system object types. 
13 Note that we deﬁne preﬁx “: ”f o r an instance and “kry: ”f o r Krystal ontology. We 
omit it in ﬁgures for simplicity. 
Fig. 3. RDFS & OWL reasoning for vertice/edge inference. 12 
Fig. 4. rdfs7 ( rdfs:subPropertyOf ) inference example. 
:/home/admin/clean , since in the ontology we deﬁne kry:writes 
as owl:ObjectProperty with an rdfs:domain of kry:Process . 
Consequently, based on rdfs2 rule deﬁnition, it will be automat- 
ically inferred that :Firefox ∈ kry:Process . The system object 
:/home/admin/clean is another example. Since kry:writes has 
rdfs:range of kry:File , based on the rdfs3 rule deﬁnition, it will 
be deduced that :/home/admin/clean ∈ kry:File . This class type 
inference is useful for, e.g., formulating semantic graph queries 
to detect attack patterns based on the system object type and 
their relations. We discuss the query processes in more detail in 
Section 6 . 
rdfs7 This rule is used to generalize relations based on prop- 
erty hierarchies identiﬁed by rdfs:subPropertyOf . In the exam- 
ple in Fig. 4 , for instance, :Firefox has the relation kry:writes 
to :/home/admin/clean , and in the ontology, kry:writes is a sub- 
property of the more generic property kry:provRel , which repre- 
sents provenance relationships. 
Based on the rdfs7 rule, kry:provRel will be automatically in- 
ferred between objects that have a more speciﬁc relation; this 
creates provenance links for all system object relationships (e.g., 
from the :Firefox process to the :/home/admin/clean ﬁle to the 
:Clean process etc.). This is helpful to identify information ﬂows, 
track causality of events, and reconstruct attack graph. We discuss 
the advantage of having explicit provenance relations (e.g., during 
backward-forward analysis for attack graph reconstruction) further 
in Section 6.3 . 
owl:InverseOf Finally, a reasoning technique that we use in our 
ontology is property inversion, identiﬁed by owl:InverseOf , which 
creates relations between system objects in both directions. For in- 
stance, as depicted in Fig. 3 , :Firefox has a relation kry:writes 
to :/home/admin/clean and in the ontology, kry:writes is deﬁned 
as owl:inverseOf to kry:isWrittenBy . Based on the owl:inverseOf 
rule, it will be automatically inferred that :/home/admin/clean also 
has a relation kry:isWrittenBy to :Firefox . The same holds for 
property kry:executes , since it has the relation owl:inverseOf to 
kry:isExecutedBy in the ontology. 
6. Solution architecture 
In this section we present KRYSTAL , a modular framework for 
tactical attack discovery in audit data. The proposed framework in- 
6 

===== Page 006 =====
K. Kurniawan, A. Ekelhart, E. Kiesling et al. Computers & Security 121 (2022) 102828 
Fig. 5. Krystal Framework Architecture. 
Listing 1. Excerpt of an RDF-based provenance graph generated from a log event. 
tegrates a variety of attack discovery mechanisms and takes advan- 
tage of its semantic model to include internal and external knowl- 
edge in the analysis. Fig. 5 gives an overview of the KRYSTAL attack 
discovery framework which consists of three main parts, i.e., (i) 
provenance graph building, (ii) threat detection and alerting, and 
(iii) attack graph and scenario reconstruction. 
Security analysis is typically conducted either online or oﬄine . 
Online refers to an analysis performed in a running system in 
(near) real-time, whereas oﬄine refers to analysis over collected 
data. These two modes have a different purpose (monitoring vs 
forensics), but they can complement each other in hybrid settings 
( Marz and Warren, 2015 ). 
KRYSTAL works in an online mode in that it imports each 
log event in sequence from potentially heterogeneous hosts (e.g., 
Linux, Windows, FreeBSD). The Provenance Graph Building mod- 
ule then generates an RDF-based provenance graph, taking advan- 
tage of the well-deﬁned ontology and enabling enrichment with 
background knowledge. Subsequently, the Threat Detection & Alert- 
ing module allows for the combination of various approaches on 
the uniform Knowledge Graph (KG). We illustrate the generality 
of the approach by implementing a set of common mechanisms 
as SPARQL queries, combining (i) tag propagation, (ii) attenuation 
& decay, and (iii) signature-based detection based on Indicator of 
Compromise. The Attack Graph Reconstruction module then facili- 
tates (oﬄine) attack graph generation via Backward-forward chain- 
ing and attack pattern matching via Graph Querying over the prove- 
nance graph. We explain each component in more detail in the fol- 
lowing subsections. 
6.1. Provenance graph building 
This component consists of two sub-components, Log Parsing 
and RDF Mapping. Log Parsing transforms raw log events from het- 
erogeneous hosts and operating systems (e.g., auditd from Linux, 
ETW from Windows, and dtrace from FreeBSD) into a structured 
format (i.e., JSON). This component selects and parses important 
information from the log event such as system entities (e.g., pro- 
cesses, ﬁles, sockets, etc.) and their relations (e.g., read, write, ex- 
ecute, etc). RDF-Mapping maps the structured log data into an RDF 
Listing 2. Excerpt of inferred RDF triples. 
graph representation. Speciﬁcally, we used the KRYSTAL ontology 
described in Section 5.2 and RML 14 , a declarative RDF-mapping 
language, to map the parsed audit data and transform them into 
well-deﬁned, RDF-based provenance graphs. 
Listing 1 shows an excerpt of a log event in RDF representation. 
It captures the fact that a system object (Firefox process) created a 
ﬁle (“/home/admin/clean”). In RDF, the Firefox process is modeled 
as subject :Firefox , the “write” operation is represented as prop- 
erty kry:writes and the ﬁle “/home/admin/clean” is connected 
as object :/home/admin/clean . 
Taking advantage of reasoning rules (cf. Section 5.3 ), Listing 2 
shows the inferred RDF triples from the provenance graph. 
:Firefox has been identiﬁed as a kry:Process and 
kry:SystemObject . In addition, the provenance relation prop- 
erty :provRel with the object :/home/admin/clean has been 
added automatically, and the type of :/home/admin/clean has 
been inferred as kry:File . 
Graph Reduction & Compression We apply two strategies to re- 
duce the graph size. First, we automatically merge the duplicated 
RDF output identiﬁed by the same URI (2021) , thus eliminating re- 
dundant events (events with the same subject, property and object ). 
Furthermore, we skipped irrelevant events – i.e., events that are 
not considered in our ontology –f r o m being processed. Second, 
we use Header Dictionary Triples (HDT) ( Fernández et al., 2013 ) as 
a graph compression technique that provides a compact data struc- 
ture and binary serialization format for RDF. HDT keeps large graph 
data compressed and manageable while enabling query operations 
without prior decompression. We discuss our graph reduction and 
compression results in Section 8 . 
6.2. Threat detection & alerting 
Due to the uniform KG representation, the KRYSTAL framework 
allows to combine and integrate a variety of techniques for threat 
detection and alerting. We illustrate this by (i) transforming and 
14 https://rml.io/ 
7 

===== Page 007 =====
K. Kurniawan, A. Ekelhart, E. Kiesling et al. Computers & Security 121 (2022) 102828 
Fig. 6. Tag Propagation Example. 
Listing 3. Propagation rule for incoming socket connections. 
integrating established threat detection and alerting techniques (ii) 
incorporating a signature-based threat detection approach through 
the transformation of curated public rules (e.g. Sigma Rule), and 
(iii) link the identiﬁed attack pattern into high-level attack tech- 
nique and tactic (TTPs Mapping). Rather than hard-coding these 
mechanisms and developing them for a custom data structure, we 
show in the following how they can be implemented as stan- 
dard declarative SPARQL queries. Tag Propagation is a prominent 
method to establish event causality in the context of provenance 
graphs. It is based on a set of rules to assign tag values onto sys- 
tem object nodes (i.e., process, ﬁle, socket, etc.) upon interaction 
between them ( Hossain et al., 2017 ). In order to trace the impact of 
malicious events, tags and values will be propagated sequentially 
through a provenance graph to other system objects if a given tag 
propagation rule is satisﬁed. 
Figure 6 illustrates tag propagation with an example. It 
introduces integrity and conﬁdentiality tags to identify the 
suspicion level of a node. We express propagation rules 
Hossain et al. (2020) as SPARQL queries processed by our tag prop- 
agation component. Listing 3 shows the query matching the illus- 
tration in Fig. 6 . It checks if a socket connection ( < socket > ) 
is received by ( :isReceivedBy ) a process ( < process > ) and 
then compares the minimum ( afn:min ) integrity tag value 
( :intTag ) of the < socket > (identiﬁed by ?oit variable) and 
< process > (identiﬁed by ?sit variable). 15 If ?oit is not the 
same as ?sit , it updates 16 ?sit with the new value (identiﬁed 
by the ?nit variable). 
Attenuation & Decay are techniques to tackle the “dependence 
explosion” problem ( Hossain et al., 2017 ), which occurs when a 
node in the provenance graph interacts with a large number of sys- 
tem objects, causing a large number of benign events to be ﬂagged 
as being part of an attack ( Hossain et al., 2020 ). This leads to a 
large number of false-positive alerts, making it diﬃcult to identify 
relevant alerts. Tag attenuation ( Hossain et al., 2020 ) aims to alle- 
15 System objects with integrity scores in the interval [0 . 0 − 0 . 5 | are considered 
suspicious and scores in the interval [0 . 5 − 1 . 0] are considered benign. 
16 SPARQL uses DELETE and INSERT to perform update operations on triple(s); 
cf. https://www.w3.org/TR/sparql11-update/ 
Listing 4. Attenuation rule for a benign write propagation. 
viate this issue by considering objects imperfect intermediaries for 
propagating malicious behavior through a benign process. In the 
previous example (cf. Fig. 6 ), for instance, the low integrity process 
p 1 writes a ﬁle f 1 , lowering its integrity. To avoid excessive propa- 
gation to other objects from there, the integrity and conﬁdentiality 
tags of a benign subject get attenuated before they propagate to 
another benign object. This can be achieved by applying an addi- 
tive factor af to the original tag value. 
Tag decay is based on the assumption that in case a benign 
subject gets compromised and becomes suspicious, it will do so 
soon after consuming a suspicious input (e.g., read low integrity 
ﬁle) ( Hossain et al., 2020 ). Consequently, this technique gradually 
lifts the score of the low integrity subject and limits benign ob- 
jects from being propagated and ﬂagged as suspicious, particularly 
for long-running processes. 
Listing 4 illustrates how the KRYSTAL framework enables declar- 
ative deﬁnitions of such rules using SPARQL queries. It shows an 
example of an attenuation rule for a benign write propagation that 
checks for a < process > that :writes a conﬁdential < file > . 
The rule gradually increments the conﬁdentiality tag ( :confTag ) 
value ( ?sct ) of processes. 
Provenance-Based Alerting Provenance-based alerting policies 
detect attacks based on the simultaneous fulﬁllment of sev- 
eral conditions in the provenance graph. These conditions (cf. 
Hossain et al., 2020 ) take data integrity tags as well as informa- 
tion associated with nodes (e.g., permissions, users) into account. 
For example, a suspicious ﬁle execution can be detected under the 
following alert policy: 
• a ﬁle f is executed by a process p , 
• f has a low integrity tag value ( < 0.5) and p is benign (integrity 
> = 0.5). 
The KRYSTAL framework facilitates provenance-based alerting by 
expressing alert policies as SPARQL queries and matching them 
against the provenance log graph. Listing 5 provides an exam- 
ple of an alerting policy for suspicious ﬁle execution. The query 
matches a ﬁle ( ?file ) with a low integrity value that has been 
executed by a benign process. Speciﬁcally, ﬁles with a tag value 
8 

===== Page 008 =====
K. Kurniawan, A. Ekelhart, E. Kiesling et al. Computers & Security 121 (2022) 102828 
Fig. 7. Signature/rule-based threat detection example using the translated Sigma -rule query. 
Listing 5. Alerting policy represented as SPARQL query. 
below 0.5 are considered low integrity and the respective triple 
?file :isExecutedBy ?process ) will be marked with the 
detected rule. 17 
Signature/Rule-based Threat Detection We complement the 
provenance-based mechanisms with a signature/rule-based detec- 
tion approach that utilizes IoC deﬁnitions to identify known at- 
tacks in log events. This illustrates that the uniform KG representa- 
tion facilitates the combination of a variety of approaches by using 
a common declarative query language. 
Signatures are an established and effective approach in de- 
tecting known attack patterns, but maintaining the set of rules 
and signatures can be labour-intensive ( Li et al., 2021 ). To tackle 
this problem, KRYSTAL leverages Sigma 18 –a n open, shareable, 
community-driven and generic rule format for threat detection in 
logs. 
Figure 7 part (1) shows an example of signature/rule-based 
threat detection deﬁned in Sigma . 19 Each Sigma -rule is written 
in YAML 20 and deﬁnes the detection rule and its metadata ( ti- 
tle, id, date, author, log-source etc.). A key beneﬁt of these rules 
is that the tags metadata links rules to speciﬁc TTPs from MITRE 
ATT&CK. For example, attack.t1204.002 corresponds to the tech- 
nique T1204.002 21 ( User Execution: Malicious File ). As per November 
2021 22 , Sigma contains more than 1497 rules/signatures for differ- 
ent log sources (e.g., application, network, web logs) and platforms 
(e.g., Linux & Windows). 
17 We used the SPARQL CONSTRUCT syntax to generate new triples and link the 
detected alert to the respective rule. 
18 https://github.com/SigmaHQ/sigma 
19 https://github.com/SigmaHQ/sigma 
20 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YAML 
21 https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1204/003/ 
22 Last access: 11/26/2021 
Our framework translates these Sigma rule speciﬁcations 23 au- 
tomatically and transforms them into SPARQL query expressions. 
Speciﬁcally, we identiﬁed two search-identiﬁers under the detec- 
tion attribute: (i) lists that contain strings applied to the full log 
message and joined with a logical ’OR’, and (ii) maps that consist 
of key/value pairs, where key is a ﬁeld in the log data and value 
is a string or integer. Lists of maps are joined with a logical “OR”
while all elements of a map are joined with a logical “AND”. 
We express lists as SPARQL ﬁlters with regex matching, while 
maps are represented as triple patterns, i.e. Subject (S), Predicate 
(P), and Object (O). S is a log object, P is a log property i.e., key/ﬁeld 
in the log data and O is the value. Similar to lists , we express 
the key/value pair matching using regex ﬁlters in SPARQL. Fur- 
thermore, we also map and transform the rule metadata into RDF. 
Figure 7 part (2) shows an example translation of a Sigma rule into 
SPARQL and RDF. 
The translated Sigma rules are executed against the provenance 
graph to detect potential attacks/threats in the Threat Detection and 
Alerting module of our framework. As we can see in Fig. 7 part (3), 
we detect an alert called “Program Executions in Suspicious Folder ”
in the provenance graph since the execution of the /tmp/vUgefal 
process is located in the /tmp/ folder as deﬁned in the Sigma rule. 
Subsequently, the generated alert will be linked automatically to 
the T1204.002 ( User Execution: Malicious File ) technique from the 
ATT&CK knowledge graph ( Kurniawan et al., 2021 ) in the back- 
ground knowledge (cf. Fig. 7 part (4)). We explain this linking 
mechanism further in Section 6.3 . 
6.3. Attack graph reconstruction 
The next important step once the provenance graph has been 
constructed and alerts have been raised is to understand how the 
alerts are connected and to reconstruct potential attack steps. To 
this end, we construct an attack graph and the attack scenario 
out of the provenance graph through (i) Backward-Forward Chain- 
ing and (ii) Graph Querying . 
Backward-Forward Chaining Backward-Forward Chaining is 
used to ﬁrst identify the potential root cause of an attack and then 
reconstruct the overall attack steps. As provenance-based alerting 
may produce a lot of alerts, we need to prioritize them and iden- 
tify potential root cause alerts of an attack. This can be done by 
assigning an alert score during backward searching , i.e., increment- 
ing alert scores of each predecessor alert on a path. 
23 https://github.com/SigmaHQ/sigma/wiki/Speciﬁcation 
9 

===== Page 009 =====
K. Kurniawan, A. Ekelhart, E. Kiesling et al. Computers & Security 121 (2022) 102828 
Listing 6. Backward searching expressed as SPARQL query. 
Listing 7. Forward chaining mechanism expressed as SPARQL query. 
For this search, we leverage Property Paths 24 , a SPARQL feature 
that allows us to ﬁnd routes between nodes in the RDF provenance 
graph. Recall that we used rdfs7 inference to automatically gener- 
ate an upper-level relation :provRel between system objects. 
As shown in Listing 6 , the backward search query consists of 
a triple pattern [ ?currentAlert ∧ :provRel ∗ ?s ], in which 
∧ . ∗ represents the property path that ﬁnds all possible back- 
ward connections from a node ?currentAlert to a node ?s 
via the relation property :provRel , where ?s is classiﬁed as 
part of another alert. We represent this condition as an RDF-star 25 
statement, i.e., [ << ?s ?p ?o >> rule:hasDetectedRule 
?rule ]. 
Next, we iteratively update the alert scores for each prede- 
cessor alert (+1). After scoring all alerts, we can construct attack 
sequences, starting with the alerts with the highest values and 
performing forward chaining to construct attack scenario graphs. 
We use the same technique as we did for backward chaining, 
i.e., property paths to ﬁnd forward routes connected to the de- 
ﬁned starting nodes. Listing 7 shows the generic SPARQL query 
to construct an attack scenario from the provenance graph. From 
the ?startingNode , it ﬁnds possible routes and visits connected 
nodes via the :provRel relation. A threshold deﬁnes which nodes 
will be connected, e.g., only low integrity nodes with an integrity 
tag lower than 0.5. 
Graph Querying Graph querying can detect attack behavior in a 
provenance graph based on attack patterns. The graph query pat- 
terns can be constructed from observed behavior or existing in- 
formation in published CTI, incident reports, public malware doc- 
umentation, etc. Based on that, the patterns can be constructed 
manually or –p o t e n t i a l l y –a l s o through automated extraction 
methods such as AttacKG ( King and Chen, 2003b ). 
Figure 8 visualizes a graph query example. A subset of the 
graph (red box) represents an observed attack pattern inside the 
provenance graph. Unlike previous work ( Gao et al., 2018a; 2018b; 
Milajerdi et al., 2019a ) that use custom domain-speciﬁc languages 
to perform graph querying, KRYSTAL provides a uniform graph 
querying mechanism with a high expressivity through SPARQL. Fur- 
thermore, it also supports linking to other datasets. 
To formulate graph patterns in SPARQL 26 , we can deﬁne sys- 
tem object types as nodes (i.e., via Classes ) and their interac- 
tions as relation properties (i.e., via Object Properties ). The formu- 
lated graph queries can be executed against the provenance graphs 
24 https://www.w3.org/TR/sparql11-query/#propertypaths 
25 https://w3c.github.io/rdf- star/cg- spec/editors _ draft.html 
26 Graph pattern that identiﬁes a speciﬁc known attack pattern; deﬁned based on 
the DARPA Transparent Computing TA5.1 Ground Truth Report ( DAR, 2021 ). 
Fig. 8. Graph query alignment example: Graph query (red box) is aligned over the 
provenance graph to detect potential attack patterns. The constructed attack graph 
below represents a detected pattern. (For interpretation of the references to colour 
in this ﬁgure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.) 
Listing 8. SPARQL graph query 26 for Fig. 8 . 
to match potential attack patterns. Listing 8 27 depicts an exam- 
ple graph query visualized in Fig. 8 . It detects a potential attack 
where a browser receives a connection from a socket ( ?socket 
:isReceivedBy ?browser ). The fact that ?browser is of 
type :Browser is established in the background knowledge (i.e. 
< http://w3id.org/sepses/..knowledge > ). The SPARQL 
query federation mechanism is used to include the background 
knowledge in the query ( SERVICE syntax). 
Subsequently, the browser creates a ﬁle in the local system 
(deﬁned by ?browser :writes ?file1 ). This ﬁle is then exe- 
27 Note that the automatic construction of graph patterns from existing resources 
is out of scope for this paper. 
10 

===== Page 010 =====
K. Kurniawan, A. Ekelhart, E. Kiesling et al. Computers & Security 121 (2022) 102828 
Fig. 9. Background linking example, to automatically link alerts detected by the 
threat detection module to external background knowledge (e.g. ATT&CK-KG). 
cuted as a new process ( :file1 :isExecutedBy :process2 ) 
and reads another conﬁdential ﬁle ( ?file1 :reads ?file2 ). 
Next, the process sends the conﬁdential ﬁle to another socket 
( process :sends ?socket2 ). We can use the FILTER syntax 
(i.e. FILTER (?fit < 0.5) ) to focus on conﬁdential ﬁles (i.e., 
with a tag value ( ?file2 rule:confTag ?fit ) lower than 
0.5). 28 
To reconstruct the resulting attack graph, we used SPARQL 
CONSTRUCT queries to generate new triples in RDF. The generated 
attack graph can be shared and reused – e.g., for further threat 
hunting activities and analysis. 
6.4. Contextualization & linking 
Security-related events are typically highly context-speciﬁc and 
hence, their interpretation requires extensive background knowl- 
edge ( Ekelhart et al., 2018 ). Such knowledge plays an important 
role in our approach and can enrich and provide additional infor- 
mation – e.g., to identify high-level attack steps in the generated 
attack graph. 
In particular, we link results to our previously developed SEPSES 
CSKG ( Kiesling et al., 2019 ), a continuously updated cybersecu- 
rity knowledge graph that integrates data from various publicly 
available sources, including CAPEC, CPE, CVE, CVSS, and CWE. Fur- 
thermore, we extend the SEPSES CSKG with attack patterns from 
MITRE ATT&CK that consist of 665 attack techniques and 14 attack 
tactics (ATT&CK-KG Kurniawan et al., 2021 ). 
Figure 9 illustrates this background knowledge link- 
ing. The example relation :isExecutedBy between a ﬁle 
:/home/admin/clean and a process :Clean can be linked to 
attack techniques and tactics in the background knowledge: in this 
case, the technique “exploitation for client execution ”, identiﬁed by 
node :T1203 ) from the MITRE ATT&CK matrix 29 ( Kurniawan et al., 
2021 ). Since node :T1203 also provides links to additional infor- 
mation (tactics, mitigations, etc.), we can use this node to abstract 
from concrete indicators to a higher-level conceptualization of 
attacks and their techniques, tactics, procedures. 
Listing 9 shows an excerpt of background linking dur- 
ing forward chaining via SPARQL query federation. We mod- 
iﬁed the query from Listing 7 and introduced additional 
28 Recall that semantic reasoning infers the type (i.e. Class ) of system objects auto- 
matically based on their relations (i.e., rdfs2 & rdfs3 ), hence, we can deﬁne attack 
patterns based on their relations only. 
29 https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1203/ 
Listing 9. Contextualization and linking through semantic query federation 
(SPARQL Service). 
Fig. 10. Implementation Setup. 
query patterns such as SERVICE followed by an endpoint e.g. 
http://w3id.org/sepses/repositories/knowledge which references exter- 
nal background knowledge. This links a detected rule with a cor- 
responding attack technique in the background knowledge (iden- 
tiﬁed by the triple pattern ?r rule:hasAttackTechnique 
?tech ). Finally, we also link the identiﬁed technique to a tactic 
(identiﬁed by ?tech at:accomplishesTactic ?tt ). This il- 
lustrates how the SPARQL federation mechanism makes it possible 
to query and link an entity to additional resources, such as mitiga- 
tion techniques, impacts, etc. 
7. Implementation & application scenarios 
In this section, we describe the implementation of our frame- 
work and demonstrate its feasibility in several scenarios. 
7.1. Implementation 
Figure 10 visualizes the implementation architecture of our ap- 
proach. We developed a Java-based log processing tool called the 
KRYSTAL engine 30 that consumes log data from three different log 
sources, i.e., Linux auditd , FreeBSD DTrace 31 , and Windows ETW . 
We used the KRYSTAL Ontology to parse and map log data into 
an RDF-based provenance graph. By means of the Jena 32 reason- 
ing engine, we can infer new knowledge during provenance graph 
building. 
30 https://github.com/sepses/SimpleLogProvenance 
31 https://wiki.freebsd.org/DTrace/ 
32 https://jena.apache.org/documentation/inference/ 
11

===== Page 011 =====
K. Kurniawan, A. Ekelhart, E. Kiesling et al. Computers & Security 121 (2022) 102828 
Table 3 
Attack Scenarios. 
Scenario 
ID Dataset ID OS Platform Scenario Name Scenario description 
1 Cadets I FreeBSD Nginx 
backdoor 
Nginx backdoor w/ Drakon in-memory . An attacker sent a malformed HTTP request to a 
vulnerable Nginx web server that leads to several malicious ﬁle creations and process 
executions in the local system ( Figure 11 ). 
2 Cadets I FreeBSD Nginx 
backdoor 
Nginx backdoor w/ Drakon in-memory . A vulnerable Nginx webserver downloads several 
malicious ﬁles after being exploited by a malformed HTTP request ( Figure 12 ). 
3 Cadets II FreeBSD Nginx 
backdoor 
Nginx backdoor w/ Drakon in-memory . Similar to Scenario 3, the vulnerable Nginx webserver 
was successfully exploited by an attacker. It downloads a payload ﬁle which leads to 
sensitive information leaking ( Figure 13 ). 
4 Theia Ubuntu 
12.04 
Firefox 
backdoor 
Firefox backdoor w/ Drakon in-memory . Firefox process gets exploited by a malicious website 
to download and execute ﬁles to steal sensitive information from users ( Figure 11 ). 
5 Five 
Direction 
Windows 
10 
Firefox 
backdoor 
Firefox backdoor w/ Drakon in-memory . Firefox process gets exploited via a drakor memory 
payload after browsing a malicious website ( Figure 15 ). 
Furthermore, we extended the existing SEPSES Cybersecurity 
Knowledge Graph ( Kiesling et al., 2019 ) by including attack tech- 
niques and tactics from MITRE ATT&CK and incorporate it as exter- 
nal background knowledge. Furthermore, we translate existing IoC 
Sigma ( Roth and Patzke, 2021 ) rules into SPARQL queries. 
To construct attack graphs (through backward-forward chaining 
and graph querying ), link internal and external background knowl- 
edge (via SPARQL query federation), as well as to visualize the re- 
sulting attack graphs, we use the in-memory Jena TDB 33 and the 
Stardog Enterprise Knowledge Graph platform . 34 
7.2. Application scenarios 
In the following application scenarios, we demonstrate how 
the KRYSTAL framework automatically constructs compact attack 
graphs, links and contextualizes them with background knowledge, 
and ﬁnally maps them to high-level attack steps via TTPs deﬁned 
in MITRE ATT&CK. 
We use a DARPA dataset ( DAR, 2021 ) that contains attack sce- 
narios carried out by a red team as part of the DARPA Transpar- 
ent Computing (TC) program. An overview of the attack scenarios 
can be found in Table 3 . Due to space limitation, we only explain 
one scenario in this section (Scenario 1), and include the remaining 
scenarios in the appendix. Scenario 1 - Nginx backdoor w/ Drakon 
in-memory This attack scenario has been used as motivation exam- 
ple in Section 1 . As shown in Fig. 11 , our system detected a num- 
ber of alerts including ﬁle creation, change permission, ﬁle execu- 
tion, and data-leak . After performing backward and forward chain- 
ing, we successfully constructed the attack graph of this scenario. 
Furthermore, we performed query federation during forward chain- 
ing to include external background knowledge. Our query yields 
an attack graph that automatically links the detected alerts to the 
MITRE ATT&CK techniques and tactics. Finally, we can see the re- 
constructed attack graph together with its kill-chain phases such 
as Reconnaissance, Defense Evasion, Execution and Exﬁltration . 
8. Evaluation 
In this section, we evaluate the KRYSTAL framework through a 
set of experiments and discuss the results. 
8.1. Experimental setup 
We performed the experiments on two machines: (i) an Ubuntu 
18.04 Server (Intel 2.59 GHz vCPU, 32 GB RAM) was used for 
provenance graph building and evaluation of threat detection and 
alerting techniques. (ii) a Windows 10 (Intel 2.90 GHz vCPU, 16 GB 
33 https://jena.apache.org/documentation/tdb/ 
34 https://www.stardog.com/platform/ 
RAM) machine was used for scenario reconstruction, graph query- 
ing and attack graph visualization using Stardog Studio . 35 
Dataset Overview For the evaluation, we used well-established 
datasets from red vs. blue team adversarial engagements produced 
as part of the third Transparent Computing (TC) program organized 
by DARPA ( DAR, 2021 ). The datasets are organized into ﬁve cat- 
egories, namely Cadets, Trace, Theia, FiveDirections and ClearScope . 
Each dataset includes log events generated during the engage- 
ments on a speciﬁc targeted host and platform. For example, Cadets 
represents dtrace 36 log data from FreeBSD OS, Trace and Theia have 
been generated from auditd 37 Ubuntu log data, and FiveDirection 
contains ETW 38 log data from Microsoft Windows and ClearScope 
collected from Android logs. In addition, a description of attack 
steps is available as ground truth. Table 4 summarizes the ﬁve at- 
tack scenarios from the Theia (TH), Cadets (CD), and FiveDirection 
(FD) datasets that we evaluated. In total, the scenarios covers more 
than 7 days of log data from three datasets, with more than 53 GB 
of logs in JSON format. 39 
8.2. Experiment results 
We collect the following evaluations metrics in our experi- 
ments: (i) provenance graph size reduction and compression per- 
formance, (ii) run-time performance, (iii) provenance-based alert 
detection, (iv) rule-based alert detection. 
Graph Size Reduction & Compression Performance Table 4 shows 
the evaluation results for provenance graph generation and com- 
pression in the ﬁve scenarios. 
Our system generates RDF-based provenance graphs in RDF 
TURTLE format. 40 Out of the 18.7 GB Theia log dataset, for instance, 
we generated a 280 MB provenance graph (i.e., 66x smaller), the 
set of Cadets datasets (19 GB) resulted in a 400 MB provenance 
graph (i.e., 48x smaller), and out of the Five direction dataset 
(16 GB), we generated a 25 MB provenance graph (i.e., 640x 
smaller). 
The last column of Table 4 shows the compression re- 
sults of the generated provenance graphs for each dataset in 
HDT ( Fernández et al., 2013 ) format. On average, the resulting com- 
pressed provenance graphs are approximately smaller by a factor 
of 22 than the generated provenance graphs in TURTLE format. 
Run-time Performance We evaluate three aspects to measure 
the run-time performance of our approach: (i) Time for generating 
the provenance graphs from the log data, including time for tag- 
propagation, attenuation & decay and provenance-based alerting ; (ii) 
35 https://www.stardog.com/studio/ 
36 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DTrace 
37 https://linux.die.net/man/8/auditd 
38 https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/etw/event-tracing-portal 
39 Note that DARPA published the datasets in both binary and JSON formats, we 
used the JSON data as input in our evaluation. 
40 https://www.w3.org/TR/turtle/ 
12 

===== Page 012 =====
K. Kurniawan, A. Ekelhart, E. Kiesling et al. Computers & Security 121 (2022) 102828 
Fig. 11. Scenario 1 ( Nginx backdoor w/ Drakon in-memory ). This attack begins with a vulnerable Nginx web server hosted on a FreeBSD server that gets exploited by a 
malformed HTTP request. The exploit leads to multiple ﬁle creations on the local system. The attacker successfully creates an executable ﬁle (“/tmp/XIM”), changes the 
permissions and runs it as an elevated process. This process reads a sensitive ﬁle (“/etc/passwd”) and forwards data to an external network ( 53.158.101.118:80 ). 
Table 4 
Graph size reduction & compression. 
Scenario ID Dataset ID Duration (hh:mm) Log data in JSON (GB) Prov. in RDF (MB) Prov. in HDT (MB) 
1,2 CD I 48:59 7 150 7 
3 CD II 90:01 12 250 10 
4 TH 25:33 18.7 280 16 
5 FD 19:27 16 25 0.9 
Table 5 
Scenario graph construction run-time. 
Scenario ID Total Events (M) Prov. Graph Building & Alerting (events/sec) Forward Chaining (sec) Graph Querying (sec) 
1,2 7.8 16.8 K 0.79 0.31 
3 12.9 17.5 K 0.99 0.26 
4 23.4 15.6 K 1.6 0.41 
5 19.3 37.8 K 1.99 0.42 
Time for constructing the scenario graphs via list:forward-chaining ; 
and (iii) Time for generating scenario graphs through graph query- 
ing . 
We repeated each experiment ﬁve times and present average 
results. 
As shown in Table 5 , our approach can generate RDF-based 
provenance graphs from log data with up to 20k events/sec on 
average. The highest performance for provenance generation is 
achieved in Scenario 5 ( FiveDirection dataset on Windows), with 
37.8k events/sec. Compared to the other scenarios, FiveDirection has 
a larger number of events that are not considered in our model, 
resulting in a large number of events that can be excluded in the 
provenance graph generation process. 
Compared to MORSE, which achieved 100K events/sec 
( Hossain et al., 2020 ), provenance construction is somewhat 
slower. 41 This performance penalty with respect to approaches 
based on optimized custom data structures is expected and 
mainly attributable to the parsing, RDF lifting and the in-memory 
SPARQL query execution times necessary for tag propagation. The 
manageable reduction in run time performance in our evaluation 
demonstrates that the approach is viable. Given the beneﬁts, in- 
cluding improved reusability, interoperability, and enrichment with 
41 Speciﬁcally, by a factor of 5 for Linux/FreeBSD and 3 for Windows, respectively. 
background knowledge the tradeoff seems favorable. Overall, our 
framework achieved a performance of 1.2 s per attack on average 
in the scenario graph construction via list:forward-chaining . The 
highest performance has been achieved in scenario 2 and 3 ( Cadets 
dataset with FreeBSD) with 0.79 s. Note that we excluded time for 
backward-chaining for root cause identiﬁcation as it is basically a 
select query over the provenance graph (without constructing a 
new graph) and therefore the run times are relatively fast. The run 
time for scenario graph generation through graph querying is even 
faster, i.e., less than 0.5 s for all scenarios. This indicates that our 
RDF-based provenance graph data model scales well with respect 
to graph size and query complexity when it comes to graph-query 
based attack construction. 
Propagation-Based Alert Detection Performance In the follow- 
ing, we measure the effectiveness of our approach in detecting 
alerts based on alerting policies over the tagged provenance graph. 
We leverage alert policies such as Change Permission, File Execution, 
File Corruption , or Data Leak from ( Hossain et al., 2020 ). In addi- 
tion, we created a custom alert Reconn that detects connections 
from external IPs to processes that access sensitive ﬁles. Table 6 
summarizes the detected alerts for all scenarios. Overall, our ap- 
proach detected all high-level attack activities in the ground truth 
and achieved similar detection performance as the evaluation in 
Hossain et al. (2020) (cf. Table 3 ). 
13 

===== Page 013 =====
K. Kurniawan, A. Ekelhart, E. Kiesling et al. Computers & Security 121 (2022) 102828 
Table 6 
Provenance-based alert detection. 
Scenario ID Total Events (M) Reconn Change Perm File Exec File Corrupt Data Leak 
1,2 7.8 65 1152 15 115 3 
3 12.9 4 1274 1 1040 3 
4 23.4 3 9 2 618 3 
5 19.3 22 448 0 288 10 
Table 7 
Detected alerts by Sigma rules. 
Scenario ID Dataset ID Total Events (M) Correctly Identiﬁed Alert Incorrectly Identiﬁed Alert 
1,2 CD I 7.8 34 0 
3 CD II 12.9 41 0 
4 TH 23.4 19 0 
5 FD 19.3 1162 261 
Signature-Based Alert Detection Performance In this evalu- 
ation, we used the Sigma rules incorporated into our KRYSTAL 
framework to detect attacks based on IoCs from logs. As discussed 
in Section 6.2 , we automatically translated Sigma rules into ex- 
ecutable SPARQL queries and run them against the provenance 
graph. To this end, we translated most of the existing Sigma rules 
for Linux logs (33 rules) and Windows logs (160 rules). At the time 
of writing 42 , there are no speciﬁc Sigma rules for dtrace FreeBSD, 
however, dtrace FreeBSD logs have a similar structure to auditd 
Linux logs in the evaluated DARPA dataset, hence, we could also 
use them to detect attacks in FreeBSD logs. 
Table 7 shows the number of triggered alerts based on Sigma 
rules from all ﬁve scenarios within our KRYSTAL framework. For 
scenarios with Linux and FreeBSD as log sources, the translated 
Sigma rules detected similar alerts as propagation-based alert de- 
tection without any incorrectly identiﬁed alerts. It includes alerts 
for system owner or user discovery 43 , ﬁle or folder permissions 
change 44 , privilege escalation preparation 45 , program executions in 
suspicious folders 46 , etc . Furthermore, Sigma rules detected more 
speciﬁc alerts which have been missed by propagation-based ap- 
proaches , such as bash_proﬁle modiﬁcation 47 (as part of the persis- 
tence phase), and data compressed 48 (as part of the data-exﬁltration 
phase). 
For Windows, we identiﬁed more alerts on Scenario 5 (Five Di- 
rection) with a total of 1162 alerts (with 261 incorrect alerts that 
could not be linked to actual attack activities in the scenario). 
Relevant alerts include, e.g., Suspicious Service Path Modiﬁcation 49 , 
Suspicious XOR Encoded PowerShell Command Line 50 , Rar with Pass- 
word or Compression Level 51 , Change Default File Association 52 , LSASS 
Memory Dumping 53 , and Capture a Network Trace with netsh.exe . 54 
Integrated and Enriched Cross-Technique Graphs 
Our experiments showed that the knowledge graph founda- 
tion enables the integration of results from various detection tech- 
niques and their linking to additional knowledge and gives the 
analyst a rich view for comprehensive, multi-paradigmatic threat 
analysis. 
42 last access 04/05/2021 
43 http://bit.ly/sigmaDiscovery 
44 http://bit.ly/sigmaFolderPermission 
45 http://bit.ly/sigmaPrivilegeEscalation 
46 http://bit.ly/sigmaProgramExecution 
47 http://bit.ly/sigmaBashProﬁleModiﬁcation 
48 http://bit.ly/sigmaDataCompressed 
49 http://bit.ly/SigmaWinSuspService 
50 http://bit.ly/SigmaWinPowerShellXOR 
51 http://bit.ly/SigmaWinRarFlags 
52 http://bit.ly/SigmaWinChangeFileAssoc 
53 http://bit.ly/SigmaWinLSASSDump 
54 http://bit.ly/SigmaWinNetSHPacket 
The scenario attack graph in Fig. 11 , for instance, shows an en- 
riched attack graph constructed through a combination of tech- 
niques summarized in Table 8 , which compares KRYSTAL to other 
state of the art approaches and highlights the integrative aspect 
of the framework. The identiﬁed attack steps are linked to rich 
background knowledge on techniques, tactics, procedures (SEPSES 
ATT&CK-KG Kurniawan et al. (2021) ) in (cf. Fig. 9 , detailed informa- 
tion on tactics and techniques not shown due to space constraints). 
9. Discussion 
In this section, we discuss how KRYSTAL can support threat de- 
tection and attack reconstruction processes and cover its limita- 
tions. 
Uniform Data Model and Representation A uniform represen- 
tation is a key foundation to be able to fulﬁll the requirements put 
forth in Section 4 . Existing provenance-graph based detection and 
investigation approaches lack a uniﬁed data format, which hinders 
their reuse and integration. KRYSTAL ﬁlls this gap (also cf. Li et al., 
2021 ) with a knowledge graph framework based on the W3C stan- 
dards RDF and OWL. 55 The uniﬁed model allowed us to combine 
various state of the art threat detection techniques and apply them 
on a common provenance graph – fulﬁlling R2. Furthermore, it also 
also makes it easier to construct datasets and share provenance 
graph data. 
Our evaluation showed that the KRYSTAL ontology can be used 
to model audit data across platforms – i.e., Linux ( auditd ), FreeBSD 
( dtrace ), and Windows ( ETW ) –t h e r e b y fulﬁlling R4. Overall, this 
should contribute towards lowering the barrier for further re- 
search, reproduction, and quantitative comparison. 
Finally, we also ﬁnd that the uniform representation makes it 
possible to contextualize provenance graphs with knowledge from 
internal and external sources (R1). This is particularly useful for 
KRYSTAL ’s ability to not only reconstruct low-level attack graphs, 
but also link them to high-level attack tactics and techniques from 
MITRE ATT&CK (R3). 
Future approaches building on our model can take advantage 
of the semantic ﬂexibility and richness offered by the existing RDF 
ecosystem. RDF can, for instance, support multiple paradigms for 
the implementation of data management architectures in prove- 
nance graph-based detection systems, including (i) materialized 
graphs in triple stores, (ii) cached graphs implemented as in- 
memory triple stores ( Hu et al., 2016 ), (iii) distributed graphs 
( Abdelaziz et al., 2017; Gu et al., 2014; Lehmann et al., 2017 ), (iv) 
55 cf. https://www.w3.org/standards/ 
14 

===== Page 014 =====
K. Kurniawan, A. Ekelhart, E. Kiesling et al. Computers & Security 121 (2022) 102828 
Table 8 
Detection techniques supported by state of the art approaches. 
Detection 
Technique 
Holmes 
( Milajerdi et al., 2019b ) 
Morse ( Hossain et al., 
2020 ) 
Poirot ( Milajerdi et al., 
2019a ) 
Rapsheet ( Hassan et al., 
2020 ) Krystal 
Tag-Propagation - ✓ - - ✓ 
Rule/Policy-Based ✓ ✓ - - ✓ 
Signature-Based - - - ✓ ✓ 
Graph Query - - ✓ - ✓ 
Tactical Analysis 
(TTP Mapping) 
✓ - - ✓ ✓ 
virtualized graphs ( Kurniawan et al., 2022; Xiao et al., 2019 ), and 
(v) stream reasoning techniques Dell’Aglio et al. (2017) . 56 
Standard Query Language KRYSTAL leverages SPARQL 
Consortium et al. (2013) , a graph-based query language for 
RDF that offers high expressivity and supports complex querying 
(e.g., aggregation, subqueries, negation) in a declarative man- 
ner Kaminski et al. (2016) . We ﬁnd that this standardized query 
language provides powerful means to deﬁne reusable rules, 
policies and graph patterns (cf. R2). 
In particular, we observe that SPARQL property path queries 
can perform analyses that are critical to provenance-based anal- 
yses –s u c h as backward-forward chaining for attack graph re- 
construction – eﬃciently. This is despite the fact that theoretical 
studies Arenas et al. (2012) on the computational complexity of 
property paths found that the implementation of a naïve (unﬁl- 
tered) query can result in double exponential runtime complex- 
ity, which becomes critical, e.g., for nodes with more than 15k se- 
quence paths. The typical property path lengths in our scenario at- 
tack graphs, however, tend to be rather short, with a maximum 
path length of 37. This is attributable to the absence of long chains 
in the provenance data to begin with on the one hand, but also 
due to tagging and ﬁltering mechanisms such as attenuation and 
decay, which effectively limit path lengths by focusing only on rel- 
evant suspicious events and nodes with low integrity. As a conse- 
quence, we observe that the attack graph reconstruction through 
property paths performs eﬃciently. 
Although SPARQL is part of computer science curricula and 
is increasingly being adopted in many industries 57 , it is typ- 
ically new to security analysts and thus requires some train- 
ing. This could partly be addressed with general-purpose visual 
query building and exploration tools such as Haag et al. (2014) , 
Vargas et al. (2019) , but we also see a potential for future work in 
the development of intuitive specialized interfaces for threat de- 
tection and attack reconstruction. 
Integrated & Modular Framework Current research has re- 
sulted in numerous prototypes that each provide solutions for spe- 
ciﬁc detection techniques. KRYSTAL , by contrast, enables the com- 
bination of multiple different threat detection techniques and at- 
tack reconstruction approaches in a single integrated framework 
(cf. R2). Instead of applying different techniques –e a c h with their 
own preprocessing pipelines –i n isolation, the framework allows 
us to compare and combine different techniques in a single model. 
In Sections 6 and 7 , we speciﬁcally showed how a variety of de- 
tection and attack reconstruction techniques can be formulated in 
SPARQL and executed within the KRYSTAL framework. The modular- 
ity of the framework also makes it extensible for future techniques. 
Distributed Log Analysis In production settings, security anal- 
ysis will often require and involve data from disparate sources. 
KRYSTAL is built upon Semantic Web technologies which are ex- 
plicitly designed for decentralization. Consequently, KRYSTAL inher- 
56 For a survey of RDF data storage and query processing schemes, cf. 
Wylot et al. (2018) . For a survey of approaches to scale to massive data, cf. 
Ma et al. (2016) . 
57 cf. http://sparql.club 
ently supports distributed analysis (i.e., querying data across differ- 
ent machines). In Sections 6 and 7 , we demonstrated how KRYSTAL 
can integrate external information sources and facilitate distributed 
analysis through SPARQL query federation, a technique that enables 
multiple data sources to be queried in an integrated manner. 
To support large-scale provenance graph based attack discovery 
in production environments, it is necessary to distribute and paral- 
lelize computational loads to multiple (local) log processing nodes. 
This will be part of our future research, where we plan to allow for 
independent local analysis modules for threat detection and alert- 
ing and to integrate the local results into a (global) module, e.g., 
via SPARQL query federation in order to construct complete attack 
graphs to address cross-machine attack scenarios. If necessary, sev- 
eral layers of hierarchies can be introduced to better scale the co- 
ordination effort. 
Online Attack Graph Reconstruction KRYSTAL has been evalu- 
ated in an oﬄine setting, which can facilitate, e.g., forensic anal- 
yses. A (near real-time) online deployment mode would require 
consideration of issues for attack reconstruction over streaming 
data. In particular, it would require (i) strategies to dynamically 
construct attack graphs, (ii) mechanisms to manage continuous up- 
dates on a multitude of parallel attack graph reconstruction pro- 
cesses, (iii) policies for prioritizing and discarding attack graph 
reconstruction processes. Furthermore, the complexity of the ap- 
proach grows if analyses should be performed in large distributed 
scenarios and over multiple data streams, which raises issues 
around time synchronization, latency, throughput, etc. We plan to 
investigate online scenarios with (semantic) streaming technolo- 
gies and extend the framework accordingly in future work. 
Unknown Attack Behavior To increase robustness against new 
ways to evade detection, KRYSTAL provides a more general frame- 
work that makes it possible to combine a variety of attack recon- 
struction techniques on top of a common knowledge graph founda- 
tion. For instance, we demonstrated how KRYSTAL can incorporate 
existing community-based threat detection rules such as Sigma 
and integrate them with state of the art detection techniques that 
have been demonstrated to be effective in the context of Advanced 
Persistent Threat. 
We argue that although evasion techniques to circumvent de- 
tection will always be a concern, the possibility to apply multi- 
ple techniques (combining, e.g., rule-based, graph queries, and tag 
propagation) in the KRYSTAL framework can provide more robust 
detection of unknown attack behavior compared to the isolated ap- 
plication of individual approaches. Furthermore the ﬂexible frame- 
work allows for faster adaptation, experimentation, and parameter 
tuning. For instance, the rules and policies in the Listings in this 
paper can be adapted quickly to address new evasion techniques. 
10. Conclusions 
In this paper, we proposed KRYSTAL , a modular knowledge 
graph-based framework for threat detection, scenario reconstruc- 
tion, and tactical attack analysis. We provide an open, standards- 
based provenance graph representation based on Semantic Web 
technologies that can ﬂexibly combine multiple threat detection 
15 

===== Page 015 =====
K. Kurniawan, A. Ekelhart, E. Kiesling et al. Computers & Security 121 (2022) 102828 
techniques and contextualize provenance data over both internal 
system knowledge and external cyber-security knowledge. Based 
on the KRYSTAL ontology, we provide a foundation for provenance 
and attack graph modeling in a uniﬁed framework. The ontology 
provides semantic interoperability and allows users to leverage 
community knowledge for tactical attack analysis. Furthermore, 
our framework introduces a declarative and modular architecture 
to overcome the inﬂexibility of monolithic prototypes; hence, it 
supports rapid development and integration of new approaches, 
lowering the barriers for rule development, reproducibility, and 
further research. 
To evaluate the ability of SPARQL to effectively express threat 
detection rules, we implemented several state of the art techniques 
including tag propagation, list:attenuation and decay, signature/rule- 
based detection and graph queries . We evaluated the feasibil- 
ity of our approach for threat detection and attack construc- 
tion through multiple attack scenarios from the well-established 
DARPA-TC dataset. The evaluation shows that our ontology-based 
RDF provenance graphs are scalable with respect to graph size and 
query complexity without sacriﬁcing graph reduction, compres- 
sion, and attack reconstruction performance. This makes it possi- 
ble to combine a variety of threat detection techniques, which im- 
proved the detection capabilities in our evaluation. For instance, 
we found that complementary rule-based threat detection identi- 
ﬁed threats which were missed by tag-propagation techniques. 
Finally, our framework facilitates linking to high-level attack 
patterns to establish a “kill-chain” of high-level attacker tactics, 
which results in a navigable and queryable provenance graph en- 
riched with security knowledge. This can help improve attack un- 
derstanding and situational awareness. 
As next steps in our research, we plan to integrate with mul- 
tiple large-scale heterogeneous log sources beyond audit log data 
and aim for performance optimization (e.g., for better exploration 
and visualization). Based on the possibility to combine detection 
techniques, we want to explore how alerts raised by one technique 
could automatically trigger analysis by other techniques for conﬁr- 
mation and additional information. Further research will also focus 
on exploring other threat detection approaches, including anomaly 
detection techniques, and integrating them into our framework. Fi- 
nally, we plan to adapt and evaluate the attack graph construction 
approach in different implementation settings such as in decentral- 
ized and distributed scenarios. 
Declaration of Competing Interest 
The authors declare that they have no known competing ﬁnan- 
cial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to 
inﬂuence the work reported in this paper. 
CRediT authorship contribution statement 
Kabul Kurniawan: Conceptualization, Methodology, Software, 
Investigation, Validation, Visualization, Writing – original draft. 
Andreas Ekelhart: Conceptualization, Writing –r e v i e w & editing. 
Elmar Kiesling: Conceptualization, Writing –r e v i e w & editing. 
Gerald Quirchmayr: Supervision. A Min Tjoa: Supervision. 
Acknowledgments 
This work has been supported by netidee SCIENCE and the Aus- 
trian Science Fund (FWF) under grant P30437-N31. The compe- 
tence center SBA Research (SBA-K1) is funded within the frame- 
work of COMET — Competence Centers for Excellent Technologies 
by BMVIT, BMDW, and the federal state of Vienna, managed by 
the FFG. Moreover, the ﬁnancial support by the Christian Doppler 
Research Association, the Austrian Federal Ministry for Digital and 
Economic Affairs and the National Foundation for Research, Tech- 
nology and Development is gratefully acknowledged (Christian- 
Doppler-Laboratory for Security and Quality Improvement in the 
Production System Lifecycle). 
Appendix 
Scenario 2 - Nginx backdoor w/ Drakon in-memory In this sce- 
nario our system detects several alarms on the provenance graph 
as shown on Fig. 12 . We performed backward-forward chaining 
with query federation to construct the attack graph together with 
its kill-chain phases. We successfully linked the generated attack 
graph to MITRE ATT&CK techniques such as Gather Victim Iden- 
tity Information (T1589), File and Directory Permissions Modiﬁcation 
Fig. 12. Scenario 2 ( Nginx backdoor w/ Drakon in-memory ). The attack begins with a vulnerable Nginx installed on a FreeBSD host that gets exploited by an attacker. The 
attacker sends a malformed HTTP request that results in downloading several malicious ﬁles on the local system. One of the ﬁles i.e. /tmp/pEja72mA then gets executed, 
which spawns a process pEja72mA . This process reads sensitive information /etc/passwd) and connects remotely via C&C to the attacker console. 
16 

===== Page 016 =====
K. Kurniawan, A. Ekelhart, E. Kiesling et al. Computers & Security 121 (2022) 102828 
Fig. 13. Scenario 3 ( Nginx backdoor w/ Drakon in-memory) . The same case as before, this time the attacker successfully exploits a vulnerable Nginx by downloading another 
payload ﬁle (“/tmp/vUgefal”). The attacker spawns an elevated process. This process later reads sensitive information (“/etc/passwd”) from the local system and sends data 
the the external network. 
Fig. 14. Scenario 4 ( Firefox backdoor w/ Drakon in-memory ) The attack starts with the exploitation of Firefox 54.01 on Ubuntu 12.04 by a malicious ad server. The Firefox 
process gets compromised after visiting a malicious website, and subsequently downloads a malicious ﬁle to the user directory “/home/admin/clean ”. This ﬁle is then executed 
spawning a new process Clean . Another ﬁle Proﬁle is also created and spawned. Both processes access a sensitive ﬁle “/etc/passwd ”a n d send the data to an external network 
( 161.116.88.72:80 ). 
(T1222), Exploitationfor Client Execution (T1203) and Automated Ex- 
ﬁltration (T1020). Finally, following the connection from techniques 
to tactics, we can see kill-chain phases including Reconnaissance, 
Defense-evasion, Execution and Exﬁltration . 
Scenario 3 - Nginx backdoor w/ Drakon in-memory 
As shown in Fig. 13 , from the detected alerts, we performed 
backward-forward chaining over the provenance graphs together 
with query federation to external background knowledge. The sys- 
tem successfully constructed this scenario attack graph together 
with connections to MITRE ATT&CK techniques and tactics. In that 
ﬁgure, we see identiﬁed attack techniques such as Gather Victim 
Identity Information (T1589), File and Directory Permissions Modiﬁ- 
cation (T1222), Exploitation for Client Execution (T1203) and Auto- 
mated Exﬁltration (T1020). Finally, these detected techniques lead 
to the attack phases including Reconnaissance, Defense-evasion, Ex- 
ecution and Exﬁltration . 
Scenario 4 - Firefox backdoor w/ Drakon in-memory As shown 
in Fig. 14 , our system detects several alarms in this scenario, 
including ﬁle execution (“Clean ”a n d “Proﬁle ” process) and data 
leaks (both “Clean ”a n d “Proﬁle ” processes read a sensitive ﬁle 
“/etc/passwd ”a n d send data to “161.116.88.72:80 ”). Furthermore, 
due to the query federation those detected alarms are automati- 
cally linked and mapped to our CTI background knowledge, yield- 
ing two MITRE ATT&CK techniques namely Exploitation for Client 
17 

===== Page 017 =====
K. Kurniawan, A. Ekelhart, E. Kiesling et al. Computers & Security 121 (2022) 102828 
Fig. 15. Scenario 5 ( Firefox backdoor w/ Drakon in-memory ). This attack begins with 
the exploitation of Firefox 54.01, installed on a Windows 10 host. The exploit loads 
drakon into Firefox memory, which opens a C&C connection to the attack network. 
Via the Firefox process, multiple user documents are successfully exﬁltrated to the 
attacker’s network. 
Execution (T1203) and Automated Exﬁltration (T1020). Those tech- 
niques are further linked to high-level MITRE ATT&CK tactics, i.e. 
Execution and Exﬁltration . 
Scenario 5 - Firefox backdoor w/ Drakon in-memory As shown in 
Fig. 15 , our system detects several alerts within this scenario. After 
performing backward-forward chaining and queries with federation 
to background knowledge, our system successfully identiﬁed two 
MITRE ATT&CK attack techniques within the attack graph, namely 
Gather Victim Identity Information (T1589) and Automated Exﬁltra- 
tion (T1020). Finally, we identify kill-chain phases such us Recon- 
naissance and Exﬁltration . 
References 
Abdelaziz, I., Harbi, R., Khayyat, Z., Kalnis, P., 2017. A survey and experimental com- 
parison of distributed SPARQL engines for very large RDF data. Proc. VLDB En- 
dowment 10 (13), 2049–2060 . https://doi.org/10.14778/3151106.3151109 
Arenas, M., Conca, S., Pérez, J., 2012. Counting beyond a Yottabyte, or how SPARQL 
1.1 property paths will prevent adoption of the standard. In: WWW ’12: Pro- 
ceedings of the 21st International Conference on World Wide Web. Associa- 
tion for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, pp. 629–638. doi: 10.1145/ 
2187836.2187922 . 
Capec, 2021Common attack pattern enumeration and classiﬁcation. Accessed: 
30.03.2021, https://capec.mitre.org/ . 
Consortium W.W.W., et al. SPARQL 1.1 overview. 2013. https://www.w3.org/TR/ 
sparql11-overview/ . 
CVE, 2021Common vulnerabilities and exposures. Accessed: 30.03.2021, https://cve. 
mitre.org/about/index.html . 
CVSS, 2021Common event expression. Accessed: 30.03.2021, https://cee.mitre.org/ . 
CVSS, 2021Common vulnerability scoring system. Accessed: 30.03.2021, https:// 
www.ﬁrst.org/cvss/ . 
CWE, 2021Common weakness enumeration. Accessed: 30.03.2021, https://cwe. 
mitre.org/about/index.html . 
Cybox, 2021Cyber observable expression. Accessed: 30.03.2021, https://cyboxproject. 
github.io/ . 
DARPA, 2021Transparent computing engagement 3 data release. 
Accessed: 02.02.2021, https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/ 
1QlbUFWAGq3Hpl8wVdzOdIoZLFxkII4EK . 
Dell’Aglio, D., Della Valle, E., van Harmelen, F., Bernstein, A., 2017. Stream reason- 
ing: a survey and outlook. Data Sci. 1 (1–2), 59–83 . https://doi.org/10.3233/ 
DS-170 0 06 . 
Ekelhart, A., Ekaputra, F.J., Kiesling, E., et al., 2021. The SLOGERT framework 
for automated log knowledge graph construction. In: The Semantic Web: 
ESWC 2021. Springer International Publishing, p. 16 . https://doi.org/10.1007/ 
978- 3- 030- 77385- 4 _ 38 
Ekelhart, A., Kiesling, E., Kurniawan, K., et al., 2018. Taming the logs - Vocabularies 
for semantic security analysis, 137, pp. 109–119. doi: 10.1016/j.procs.2018.09.011 . 
Fernández, J.D., Martínez-Prieto, M.A., Gutiérrez, C., Polleres, A., Arias, M., 2013. Bi- 
nary RDF representation for publication and exchange (HDT). J. Web Semant. 19, 
22–41 . http://www.websemanticsjournal.org/index.php/ps/article/view/328 . 
Gao, P., Xiao, X., Li, D., Li, Z., Jee, K., Wu, Z., Kim, C.H., Kulkarni, S.R., Mittal, P., 2018a. 
SAQL: a stream-based query system for real-time abnormal system behavior 
detection. In: 27th USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 18). USENIX 
Association, Baltimore, MD, pp. 639–656 . https://www.usenix.org/conference/ 
usenixsecurity18/presentation/gao-peng 
Gao, P., Xiao, X., Li, Z., Jee, K., Xu, F., Kulkarni, S.R., Mittal, P., 2018b. AIQL: enabling 
eﬃcient attack investigation from system monitoring data. In: USENIX ATC ’18: 
Proceedings of the 2018 USENIX Conference on Usenix Annual Technical Con- 
ference. USENIX Association, USA, pp. 113–125. doi: 10.5555/3277355.3277367 . 
Gu, R., Hu, W., Huang, Y., 2014. Rainbow: a distributed and hierarchical RDF 
triple store with dynamic scalability. In: 2014 IEEE International Conference 
on Big Data (Big Data). IEEE, pp. 561–566 . https://doi.org/10.1109/BigData.2014. 
7004274 . 
Haag, F., Lohmann, S., Bold, S., Ertl, T., 2014. Visual SPARQL querying based on 
extended ﬁlter/ﬂow graphs. In: AVI ’14: Proceedings of the 2014 International 
Working Conference on Advanced Visual Interfaces. Association for Computing 
Machinery, New York, NY, USA, pp. 305–312. doi: 10.1145/2598153.2598185 . 
Hassan, W.U., Bates, A., Marino, D., 2020. Tactical provenance analysis for endpoint 
detection and response systems. In: 2020 IEEE Symposium on Security and Pri- 
vacy (SP), pp. 1172–1189. doi: 10.1109/SP40 0 0 0.2020.0 0 096 . 
Horrocks, I., 2005. OWL: a description logic based ontology language. In: van 
Beek, P. (Ed.), Principles and Practice of Constraint Programming - CP 2005. 
Springer Berlin Heidelberg, Berlin, Heidelberg, pp. 5–8 . https://doi.org/10.1007/ 
11564751 _ 2 
Hossain, M.N., Milajerdi, S.M., Wang, J., Eshete, B., Gjomemo, R., Sekar, R., 
Stoller, S.D., Venkatakrishnan, V.N., 2017. SLEUTH: real-time attack scenario re- 
construction from COTS audit data. In: SEC’17: Proceedings of the 26th USENIX 
Conference on Security Symposium. USENIX Association, USA, pp. 487–504. 
doi: 10.5555/3241189.3241228 . 
Hossain, M.N., Sheikhi, S., Sekar, R., et al., 2020. Combating dependence explosion 
in forensic analysis using alternative tag propagation semantics. In: 2020 IEEE 
Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP). IEEE, San Francisco, CA, USA, pp. 1139–
1155. doi: 10.1109/SP40 0 0 0.2020.0 0 064 . 
Hossain, M.N., Wang, J., Sekar, R., Stoller, S.D., 2018. Dependence-preserving data 
compaction for scalable forensic analysis. In: SEC’18: Proceedings of the 27th 
USENIX Conference on Security Symposium. USENIX Association, USA, pp. 1723–
1740. doi: 10.5555/3277203.3277331 . 
Hu, C., Wang, X., Yang, R., Wo, T., 2016. ScalaRDF: a distributed, elastic and scalable 
in-memory RDF triple store. In: 2016 IEEE 22nd International Conference on 
Parallel and Distributed Systems (ICPADS). IEEE, pp. 593–601 . https://doi.org/10. 
1109/ICPADS.2016.0084 . 
Ji, Y., Lee, S., Downing, E., Wang, W., Fazzini, M., Kim, T., Orso, A., Lee, W., et al., 2017. 
RAIN: reﬁnable attack investigation with on-demand inter-process information 
ﬂow tracking. In: Proceedings of the 2017 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer 
and Communications Security. ACM, Dallas Texas USA, pp. 377–390. doi: 10.1145/ 
3133956.3134045 . 
Ji, Y., Lee, S., Fazzini, M., Allen, J., Downing, E., Kim, T., Orso, A., Lee, W., 2018. En- 
abling reﬁnable cross-host attack investigation with eﬃcient data ﬂow tagging 
and tracking. In: SEC’18: Proceedings of the 27th USENIX Conference on Secu- 
rity Symposium. USENIX Association, USA, pp. 1705–1722. doi: 10.5555/3277203. 
3277330 . 
Kaminski, M., Kostylev, E.V., Cuenca Grau, B., 2016. Semantics and expressive power 
of subqueries and aggregates in SPARQL 1.1. In: Proceedings of the 25th Inter- 
national Conference on World Wide Web, pp. 227–238 . https://doi.org/10.1145/ 
2872427.2883022 
Kemerlis, V.P., Portokalidis, G., Jee, K., Keromytis, A.D., 2012. libdft: Practical dynamic 
data ﬂow tracking for commodity systems. SIGPLAN Not 47 (7), 121–132. doi: 10. 
1145/2365864.2151042 . 
Kenaza, T., Aiash, M., 2016. Toward an eﬃcient ontology-based event correlation in 
SIEM. Procedia Comput. Sci. 83, 139–146. doi: 10.1016/j.procs.2016.04.109 . 
Kiesling, E., Ekelhart, A., Kurniawan, K., Ekaputra, F., 2019. The SEPSES knowl- 
edge graph: an integrated resource for cybersecurity. In: Ghidini, C., Hartig, O., 
Maleshkova, M., Svátek, V., Cruz, I., Hogan, A., Song, J., Lefrançois, M., Gandon, F. 
(Eds.), The Semantic Web –I S W C 2019. Springer International Publishing, Cham, 
pp. 198–214 . https://doi.org/10.1007/978- 3- 030- 30796- 7 _ 13 
King, S.T., Chen, P.M., 2003a. Backtracking intrusions. SIGOPS Oper. Syst. Rev. 37 (5), 
223–236. doi: 10.1145/1165389.945467 . 
King, S.T., Chen, P.M., 2003b. Backtracking intrusions. In: SOSP ’03: Proceedings 
of the Nineteenth ACM Symposium on Operating Systems Principles. Associa- 
tion for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, pp. 223–236. doi: 10.1145/ 
945445.945467 . 
Kumar S.. Classiﬁcation and detection of computer intrusions. 1996. Ph.D. thesis. 
USA. UMI Order No. GAX96-01522. 
Kurniawan, K., Ekelhart, A., Kiesling, E., et al., 2021. An ATT&CK-KG for linking cy- 
bersecurity attacks to adversary tactics and techniques. In: The Semantic Web 
–I S W C 2021, p. 5 . http://ceur- ws.org/Vol- 2980/paper363.pdf 
Kurniawan, K., Ekelhart, A., Kiesling, E., Winkler, D., Quirchmayr, G., Tjoa, A.M., 2022. 
VloGraph: a virtual knowledge graph framework for distributed security log 
analysis. Mach. Learn. Knowl. Extr. 4 (2), 371–396. doi: 10.3390/make4020016 . 
Kurniawan, K., Kiesling, E., Ekelhart, A., Ekaputra, F., 2020. Cross-platform ﬁle sys- 
tem activity monitoring and forensics a semantic approach. In: Hölbl, M., Ran- 
nenberg, K., Welzer, T. (Eds.), ICT Systems Security and Privacy Protection. SEC 
2020. IFIP Advances in Information and Communication Technology. Springer, 
Cham . https://doi.org/10.1007/978- 3- 030- 58201- 2 _ 26 
18 

===== Page 018 =====
K. Kurniawan, A. Ekelhart, E. Kiesling et al. Computers & Security 121 (2022) 102828 
Lehmann, J., Sejdiu, G., Bühmann, L., Westphal, P., Stadler, C., Ermilov, I., Bin, S., 
Chakraborty, N., Saleem, M., Ngomo, A.C.N., et al., 2017. Distributed semantic 
analytics using the SANSA stack. In: International Semantic Web Conference. 
Springer, pp. 147–155 . https://doi.org/10.1007/978- 3- 319- 68204- 4 _ 15 
Li, Z., Chen, Q.A., Yang, R., Chen, Y., Ruan, W., 2021. Threat detection and inves- 
tigation with system-level provenance graphs: a survey. Comput. Secur. 106, 
102282. doi: 10.1016/j.cose.2021.102282 . 
Ma, Z., Capretz, M.A.M., Yan, L., 2016. Storing massive resource description frame- 
work (RDF) data: a survey. Knowl. Eng. Rev. 31 (4), 391–413 . https://doi.org/10. 
1017/S02698889160 0 0217 . 
Marz, N., Warren, J., 2015. Big Data: Principles and Best Practices of Scalable Real–
Time Data Systems. Manning, Shelter Island, NY . OCLC: ocn909039685 
Mcguinness, D.L., Fikes, R., Hendler, J., Stein, L.A., 2002. DAML+OIL: an ontology lan- 
guage for the semantic web. IEEE Intell. Syst. 17 (5), 72–80. doi: 10.1109/MIS. 
2002.1039835 . 
Milajerdi, S.M., Eshete, B., Gjomemo, R., Venkatakrishnan, V.N., 2019a. POIROT: 
aligning attack behavior with kernel audit records for cyber threat hunting. In: 
CCS ’19: Proceedings of the 2019 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and 
Communications Security. Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, 
USA, pp. 1795–1812. doi: 10.1145/3319535.3363217 . 
Milajerdi, S.M., Gjomemo, R., Eshete, B., Sekar, R., Venkatakrishnan, V.N., et al., 
2019b. HOLMES: real-time APT detection through correlation of suspicious in- 
formation ﬂows. In: 2019 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP). IEEE, 
San Francisco, CA, USA, pp. 1137–1152. doi: 10.1109/SP.2019.0 0 026 . 
Mitre ATT&CK Matrix, 2021Accessed: 30.03.2021, https://attack.mitre.org/matrices/ 
enterprise/ . 
More, S., Matthews, M., Joshi, A., Finin, T., et al., 2012. A knowledge-based approach 
to intrusion detection modeling. In: 2012 IEEE Symposium on Security and Pri- 
vacy Workshops. IEEE, San Francisco, CA, USA, pp. 75–81. doi: 10.1109/SPW.2012. 
26 . 
Noel, S., Harley, E., Tam, K.H., Limiero, M., Share, M., 2016. Chapter 4 - CyGraph: 
graph-based analytics and visualization for cybersecurity. In: Gudivada, V.N., 
Raghavan, V.V., Govindaraju, V., Rao, C.R. (Eds.), Cognitive Computing: The- 
ory and Applications. In: Handbook of Statistics, vol. 35. Elsevier, pp. 117–167. 
doi: 10.1016/bs.host.2016.07.001 . 
Noy N.F., McGuinness D.L.. Ontology development 101: a guide to creating your ﬁrst 
ontology. 2001. http://www.ksl.stanford.edu/KSL _ Abstracts/KSL- 01- 05.html . 
Pinkston, J., Undercoffer, J., Joshi, A., Finin, T., 2003. A target-centric ontology for 
intrusion detection. In: Workshop on Ontologies in Distributed Systems, held 
at The 18th International Joint Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence, p. 9 . https: 
//www.csee.umbc.edu/ ∼ﬁnin/papers/ijcai03OntologiesIDS.pdf 
Roth F., Patzke T.. Sigma: generic signature format for SIEM systems, 2021. Accessed: 
30.03.2021, https://github.com/SigmaHQ/sigma . 
Sarker, I.H., Kayes, A.S.M., Badsha, S., Alqahtani, H., Watters, P., Ng, A., et al., 2020. 
Cybersecurity data science: an overview from machine learning perspective. J. 
Big Data 7 (1), 41. doi: 10.1186/s40537- 020- 00318- 5 . 
SPARQL, 20211.1 federated query. Accessed: 30.03.2021, https://www.w3.org/TR/ 
sparql11-federated-query/ . 
STIX, 2021Structured threat information expression. Accessed: 30.03.2021, https:// 
stixproject.github.io/ . 
Syed, Z., Padia, A., Finin, T., Mathews, L., Joshi, A., et al., 2016. UCO: a uniﬁed cyber- 
security ontology. In: AAAI Workshop: Artiﬁcial Intelligence for Cyber Security, 
p. 8 . https://www.aaai.org/ocs/index.php/WS/AAAIW16/paper/view/12574/12365 
URI Uniform resource identiﬁer, 2021. Accessed: 30.03.2021, https://en.wikipedia. 
org/wiki/Uniform _ Resource _ Identiﬁer . 
Vargas, H., Buil-Aranda, C., Hogan, A., López, C., 2019. RDF explorer: a visual SPARQL 
query builder. In: International Semantic Web Conference. Springer, pp. 647–
663 . https://doi.org/10.1007/978- 3- 030- 30793- 6 _ 37 
Wylot, M., Hauswirth, M., Cudré-Mauroux, P., Sakr, S., 2018. RDF data storage and 
query processing schemes: a survey. ACM Comput. Surv. (CSUR) 51 (4), 1–36 . 
https://doi.org/10.1145/3177850 . 
Xiao, G., Ding, L., Cogrel, B., Calvanese, D., 2019. Virtual knowledge graphs: an 
overview of systems and use cases. Data Intell. 1 (3), 201–223 . https://doi.org/ 
10.1162/dint _ a _ 0 0 011 . 
Xu, Z., Wu, Z., Li, Z., Jee, K., Rhee, J., Xiao, X., Xu, F., Wang, H., Jiang, G., et al., 2016. 
High ﬁdelity data reduction for big data security dependency analyses. In: Pro- 
ceedings of the 2016 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communica- 
tions Security. ACM, Vienna Austria, pp. 504–516. doi: 10.1145/2976749.2978378 . 
Zou, Q., Singhal, A., Sun, X., Liu, P., 2020. Automatic recognition of advanced per- 
sistent threat tactics for enterprise security. In: IWSPA ’20: Proceedings of the 
Sixth International Workshop on Security and Privacy Analytics. Association 
for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, pp. 43–52. doi: 10.1145/3375708. 
3380314 . 
Kabul Kurniawan received a BSc and MSc degree in Com- 
puter Science at Universitas Gadjah Mada (UGM) Indone- 
sia in 2013 and 2015 respectively. He was a research as- 
sistant at the Institute of Software and Information Sys- 
tem, Vienna University of Technology in 2018 before join- 
ing the Institute of Data, Process, and Knowledge Man- 
agement as a project assistant at Vienna University of 
Business and Economics, in 2020. He is currently a Doc- 
toral Candidate at the Computer Science, University of Vi- 
enna, Austria. His research including Data Interoperability, 
Knowledge Management, and Semantic Application in the 
domain of Cybersecurity in particularly log-stream moni- 
toring and analysis. 
Andreas Ekelhart is a senior researcher at the Depart- 
ment of Information Systems and Operations at WU and 
works in the ﬁeld of IT security with focus on leverag- 
ing semantic technologies. He furthermore holds a senior 
researcher position at the Security and Privacy group at 
the University of Vienna, and SBA Research, a competence 
centre for IT Security. He received a master’s degree in 
Business Informatics and a master’s degree in Software 
Engineering & Internet Computing, and holds a Ph.D. in 
Computer Science from the Institute of Software Technol- 
ogy and Interactive Systems at TU Wien. He is a member 
of ISC2 and holds various industrial certiﬁcations includ- 
ing CISSP, CSSLP, CEH, MCPD, MCSD, and ISTQB CTFL. 
Elmar Kiesling is a post-doctoral researcher at the In- 
stitute for Data, Process and Knowledge Management at 
WU Wien (Vienna University of Economics and Business), 
Austria. Furthermore, he coordinates the research area 
“Data Integration and Analytics for Digital Production” at 
the Austrian Center for Digital Production (ACDP). Before 
taking up these positions, he headed the Linked Data Lab 
at TU Wien (Vienna University of Technology) and was a 
senior researcher at SBA Research, an industrial research 
center for IT security, as well as a researcher at the Uni- 
versity of Vienna, where he obtained his PhD. His current 
research focuses on Knowledge Graphs and their indus- 
trial applications, most notably in the I4.0 and cybersecu- 
rity contexts. Elmar has published numerous publications in these areas and other 
ﬁelds including decision analysis, security management, innovation management, 
and blended learning. 
Gerald Quirchmayr holds Doctor’s degrees in computer 
science and law from Johannes Kepler University in Linz 
(Austria) and currently is Professor in the Multimedia In- 
formation Systems Research Group of the Faculty of Com- 
puter Science at the University of Vienna. In 20 01/20 02 
he held a Chair in Computer and Information Systems 
at the University of South Australia. He ﬁrst joined the 
University of Vienna in 1993 from the Institute of Com- 
puter Science at Johannes Kepler University in Linz (Aus- 
tria) where he had previously been teaching. His major 
research focus is on information systems in business and 
government with a special interest in security, applica- 
tions, formal representations of decision making and legal 
issues. His publication record comprises over 200 peer reviewed papers plus several 
edited books and conference proceedings as well as nationally and internationally 
published project reports. 
A Min Tjoa is full professor for Software Technology at 
the Vienna University of Technology for Software Technol- 
ogy since 1994 and currently also adjunct professor at ITB 
(Bandung Institute of Technology). He is Vice-President 
of Infoterm (International Information Center for Termi- 
nology) since 2010. Currently, he holds the executive- 
chairperson position at the Austrian National Compe- 
tence Center for Excellent Technologies in the ﬁeld of IT- 
Security (SBA).He was the Vice-president of the United 
Nations Commission on Science and Technology for De- 
velopment. He has been awarded the Honorary Doctorate 
from the Czech University of Technology in Prague for his 
research in Data Science. 
19
