

===== PAGE 1 =====
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON DEPENDABLE AND SECURE COMPUTING, VOL. 21, NO. 2, MARCH/APRIL 2024
905
Automatically Identifying CVE Affected Versions
With Patches and Developer Logs
Yongzhong He
, Yiming Wang
, Sencun Zhu
, Wei Wang
, Yunjia Zhang, Qiang Li
, and Aimin Yu
Abstract—While vulnerability databases are important sources
of information for software security, it is known that information in
these databases is inconsistent. How to rectify these incorrect data
is a challenging issue. In this article, we employ developer logs and
patches to automatically identify vulnerable source code versions
that each CVE really affects. Our tool organizes all versions of a
piece of software into a version tree, and identiﬁes the ﬁrst vulner-
able version, and the last vulnerable versions in the version tree
trunk and branches. For evaluation, we took Linux Kernel as the
case study and quantiﬁed the error rate of the vulnerable versions
reported by the NVD. The total number of vulnerable Linux Kernel
versions reported by the NVD was 43,727 (as of September 2020),
of which the total number of false positives reached 2,497 and the
total number of false negatives reached 9,330, accounting for 5.7%
and 21.34%, respectively. In addition, we compare our tool with two
vulnerability detection tools and show that our tool could achieve
high detection accuracy.
Index Terms—Developer logs, NVD, patch, versions, vulnerab-
ility.
CCS
CONCEPTS:
Security
and
privacy
Software
security
I. INTRODUCTION
S
OURCE code vulnerabilities in computer and network sys-
tems are a serious threat to users and organizations. The
2021 open-source software security and threat analysis report of
Synopsys [1] showed that more than 75 percent of commercial
software using open-source components had known bug code.
Although there were 13 automatic ﬁx mechanisms, at least 86
percentofcomputerswerenotpatchedevenwhenvulnerabilities
Manuscript received 19 February 2022; revised 4 January 2023; accepted 7
January 2023. Date of publication 5 April 2023; date of current version 14 March
2024. This work was supported in part by the Fundamental Research Funds for
the Central Universities of China under Grant 2020JBZ104, and in part by the
National Natural Science Foundation of China under Grants U21A20463 and
U22B2027.(Y.Wangistheco-ﬁrstauthorofthisarticle.Y.WangandY.Zhangdid
this work under the supervision of Y. He.) (Corresponding authors: Yongzhong
He; Wei Wang; Qiang Li.)
Yongzhong He, Wei Wang, and Qiang Li are with the Beijing Key Laboratory
of Security and Privacy in Intelligent Transportation, School of Computer,
BeijingJiaotongUniversity,Beijing100044,China(e-mail:yzhhe@bjtu.edu.cn;
wangwei1@bjtu.edu.cn; qiangcas@gmail.com).
Yiming Wang and Yunjia Zhang are with the Beijing Jiaotong University, Bei-
jing 100044, China (e-mail: 19120480@bjtu.edu.cn; 18120489@bjtu.edu.cn).
Sencun Zhu is with the Department of Computer Science and Engineering,
The Pennsylvania State University, State College, PA 16801 USA (e-mail:
sxz16@psu.edu).
Aimin Yu is with the Institute of Information Engineering, Chinese Academy
of Sciences, Beijing 100045, China (e-mail: yuaimin@iie.ac.cn).
This article has supplementary downloadable material available at https://doi.
org/10.1109/TDSC.2023.3264567.
Digital Object Identiﬁer 10.1109/TDSC.2023.3264567
were presently available as of 2020, as reported by Lopes [2].
Therefore, it is important to identify and remedy the software
security problems that are constantly found to protect computer
systems.
Security professionals rely on various sources of information
to inform them of new security issues. An important source
is the vulnerability database. Public vulnerability databases in-
clude CVE, NVD, SecurityFocus, Redhat Bugzilla, ExploitDB,
OpenWall, SecurityTracker, etc., but we focus on the most
widely used and authoritative database: National Vulnerability
Database (NVD) [3] in this work. The database is maintained by
the U.S. government, committed to accurately record all known
vulnerabilities, and effectively as an industry standard. For ex-
ample, business security services (such as Hakiri [4], Snyk [5]
and SourceClear [6]) and open-source security tools (such as
BudlerAudit[7],OWASPOSSIndex[8]anddependencycheck-
ing [9]) rely on NVD vulnerability information to run effectively.
Researchers [10], [12] use the NVD as the core data source
to reveal all aspects of vulnerability discovery and recovery
process. Aksu et al. [13] rely on the information of the NVD to
generate attack graph automatically. However, is the information
from the NVD database accurate? Indeed, previous work has
pointed out the inaccuracy of NVD information. For example,
Dong et al. [14] reported the inconsistent vulnerable software
versions of the NVD are highly prevalent: only 59.82% of the
vulnerability CVE summaries strictly match the standardized
NVD entries, and the inconsistency level increases over time.
Anwar et al. [15] discovered the inconsistent or incomplete data
of the NVD and showed the possible impact of these data prob-
lems. Other work [16], [17], [18] also investigated some types
of NVD data quality problems. The above work indicated that
the known affected software conﬁguration of NVD (introduced
in Section II-A) was indeed inaccurate. However, the previous
work mostly pointed out the inaccuracy of the NVD, with
the following question largely remaining unanswered: which
vulnerable versions are exactly affected by a CVE-ID?
To ﬁll this gap, we aim to propose a practical solution to
justify the incorrect versions reported by the NVD. For a given
CVE, none of the existing vulnerability detection methods can
guarantee that the vulnerability can be accurately identiﬁed
in all released versions, so just relying on these methods is
not enough. For example, patch-based detection [19], [20] has
one assumption: the unpatched code is vulnerable and patched
code is secure. However, in this article we ﬁnd this assumption
is not correct. Fuzzing [21] has low false positives, but it is
difﬁcult to fuzz programs that take highly structured inputs, or
1545-5971 © 2023 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 15,2026 at 04:05:42 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


===== PAGE 2 =====
906
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON DEPENDABLE AND SECURE COMPUTING, VOL. 21, NO. 2, MARCH/APRIL 2024
to ﬁnd vulnerabilities that are guarded by complex conditions
and do not manifest as crashes. The methods based on machine
learning [22], [23], [24] rely on experts to manually deﬁne
features and then use learning models to classify code with or
without vulnerabilities. Due to the coarse code granularity, it
is difﬁcult to determine the exact location of the vulnerability.
The methods based on code similarity [20], [25] are difﬁcult to
detectvulnerabilitiesthatarenotcausedbycodeduplication,and
the programs with similar vulnerable code are not necessarily
vulnerable, which leads to inaccurate results. For a CVE, we aim
to determine the boundary (e.g., the ﬁrst and the last vulnerable
versions) of all vulnerable versions in the version tree (i.e., a
tree structure to organize all versions, with the major versions
in the trunk and minor versions in the branches, introduced in
Section IV). It is worth noting that we only pay attention to
the vulnerabilities speciﬁed by CVEs, not all vulnerabilities of a
version. Therefore, if aCVEvulnerabilitystill exists inaversion,
we call it a vulnerable version.
We conduct an in-depth large-scale analysis on the open-
source code of the released versions, and systematically evaluate
and determine the versions impacted by each CVE. For a given
CVE, we divide the problem space into three steps. First, we
determine the last vulnerable version in the version tree. Based
on our study, we ﬁnd that unpatched code does not necessarily
have a vulnerability, because it may have been ﬁxed in another
way (called repatching). Second, we determine the last vulnera-
ble version in each branch of the version tree. Third, some early
versions may have gone through many updates, which is the
reason for partial matching (introduced in Section II-B) between
patches and source code. Accordingly, we design methods to
identify the partial matching source code and provide more
reliable results for the vulnerabilities. Especially, we use both
patchesandgitlogstojustifytheﬁrstversionofthevulnerability.
Finally, our work will not only put forward a new idea to
justify the Known Affected Software Conﬁgurations of the NVD,
but also reveal the special behaviors in patching vulnerable
code.
Contributions. Based on the developer logs and patches,
our tool is dedicated to automatically generate a report with
justiﬁcations to correct the Known Affected Software Conﬁg-
urations of the NVD. Our work provides several contributions.
First, our method builds all the software versions into a version
tree according to their commit dependence. We can leverage
the version tree to improve the accuracy and efﬁciency of our
tool. By contrast, previous tools check each software version
separately, which is hard to verify the detection results when they
conﬂict with each other. Second, we propose a general method
using patches and developer log information to verify which
versions are really vulnerable and further determine the version
number boundaries of the CVE vulnerabilities in the version
tree, because developer logs provide more reliable evidence than
patches only. The phenomena of repatching and partial matching
are discovered and countermeasures are proposed. Finally, we
rectiﬁed 11, 827 incorrect reports of Linux Kernel, and con-
ﬁrmed that 94 patched versions lacked corresponding committed
records in the changelogs. Our method can be applied for other
open source software (e.g. Firefox, OpenSSL). In addition,
we compare our tool to two very representative vulnerability
detection tools using a number of versions randomly selected
from ﬁve widely used open-source projects as the testing dataset.
Ourresultsshowthatthesetoolscouldnotachievehighdetection
accuracy while our tool achieved 94.3% precision and 95.6%
recall. Our work not only reports the incorrect vulnerability
information of the NVD, but also provides important insights
on such data sources for future vulnerability detection.
II. BACKGROUND
We ﬁrst introduce the background on security vulnerability
reporting mechanisms, and then describe several basic require-
ments for our tool.
A. Vulnerability Reporting
CVE and CVE-ID. CVE (Common Vulnerability Enumer-
ation) is a list of records for publicly known cybersecurity
vulnerabilities. Launched by MITRE in 1999 as a community
effort, today it is used in many cybersecurity products and
services from around the world. Each CVE record contains
an identiﬁcation number (CVE-ID) (e.g., “CVE-2021-3564”),
a description, at least one public reference [26]. When people
ﬁnd a new vulnerability, they can request and obtain a unique
CVE-ID from a CVE Numbering Authority (CNA) [27].
NVD. NVD (National Vulnerability Database), launched by
NIST (National Institute of Standards and Technology) [28],
is a repository of standard vulnerability management data
represented using the Secure Content Automation Protocol
(SCAP) [29]. Built upon and fully synchronized with the CVE
record List [26], the NVD in addition provides enhanced struc-
turalinformationforeachrecordsuchasﬁxinformation,severity
scores, and impact ratings in its vulnerability detail pages. After
the initial vulnerability report, the information of the NVD may
be manually updated [14]. For instance, for a new CVE, security
patches may not be available in the time of releasing the CVE,
but later on the links to the security patches can be added to its
NVD page.
Known Affected Software Conﬁgurations. Each vulnerability
in the NVD has a vulnerability detail page, which contains
a section called Known Affected Software Conﬁgurations (see
Fig. 1(a)). It is used to show which software or combinations
of software are considered vulnerable at the time of analysis.
Corresponding to a given CVE-ID, it reports a list of versions
impacted by the vulnerable source code. The NVD uses the
Common Platform Enumeration (CPE) 2.3 speciﬁcation when
creating these applicability statements and the matching CPE
URI[s]. Applicability statements are a way to communicate
which products are vulnerable in a relatively ﬂexible syntax [30].
This was designed primarily for machines to process and thus is
not easy for human readers to understand.
B. Basic Requirements
Our tool relies on both security patches and developer logs
to provide evidence of the vulnerability of a version, so that we
assume that security patches and developer logs are correct and
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 15,2026 at 04:05:42 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


===== PAGE 3 =====
HE et al.: AUTOMATICALLY IDENTIFYING CVE AFFECTED VERSIONS WITH PATCHES AND DEVELOPER LOGS
907
Fig. 1.
Examples of vulnerability and change reporting systems.
trustworthy, but only security patches or only developer logs are
not enough to decide if a software version is affected by a CVE
(incomplete).
Security Patch. Patches are a set of code changes to soft-
ware or operating systems (OS). They aim to solve security
vulnerabilities in programs or products. Software vendors may
release updates to ﬁx performance vulnerabilities, or to provide
enhanced security features [31]. A CVE-ID may correspond to
a single patch or multiple patches, and we call each vulnerable
code block in a patch as a diff hunk. A diff hunk is identiﬁed by
one@@statementinthepatch(seeFig.1(b)),anditcorresponds
to a source code block waiting to be patched. For ease of
explanation, we deﬁne all the lines without preﬁx in a diff hunk
as an oth, and all the ‘-’ lines as sub. A diff hunk consists of
four parts: the vulnerable function (including its parameters),
Fig. 2.
Examples of exact and partial matching.
oth (excluding the comments), the ‘-’ line(s) and the ‘+’ line(s).
Among them, the ‘-’ line and the ‘+’ line represent the lines of
source code that need to be deleted and added, respectively, and
oth is used to locate the ‘-’ line and the ‘+’ line. For example, the
diff hunkinFig. 1(b) represents that theio_ add_buffers fromthe
/fs/io _ uring.c ﬁle is a vulnerable function, and this vulnerability
is patched by deleting the ‘-’ line from the vulnerable source
code and adding the ‘+’ line. The patch-based vulnerability
detection [19], [20], [32] relies on a context-based patch method,
which extracts the lines from the diff hunks of the patches for
identiﬁcation of vulnerable source code.
There are two types of methods for matching a diff hunk with
the source code. The exact match method means that the string
consisting of ‘-’ line(s) and oth speciﬁed by the diff hunk must
exactly match the source code, and the code sequence is also the
same, as shown in Fig. 2(a). We can see that the oth lines include
six positioning start and end statements. The two ’+’ lines do not
appear in the source code, which means this code is unpatched.
Note that for a diff hunk consisting of only ‘+’ lines and oth, the
exact match means the corresponding ‘+’ lines and oth exactly
match the source code which has been patched, because ‘+’ lines
are new code, which does not exist in the unpatched source code
at the corresponding locations.
The second method is called partial match, which matches
the source code that does not have all ‘-’ lines and oth in the
diff hunk, as shown in Fig. 2(b). We can see that the oth lines
include lines 4-6 and 14-18 in the patch ﬁle, which match the
correspondent lines in the source code, but line 15 in the patch
does not match line 10 in the source code. There is no partial
match for the diff hunk consisting of only ‘+’ lines and oth,
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 15,2026 at 04:05:42 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


===== PAGE 4 =====
908
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON DEPENDABLE AND SECURE COMPUTING, VOL. 21, NO. 2, MARCH/APRIL 2024
which we will introduce in detail in Section IV-D1. For a diff
hunk where both ‘-’ and ‘+’ lines exist, our matching method
does not consider the ‘+’ lines of the diff hunk unless the ‘-’
lines in the diff hunk is a subset of the ‘+’ lines (‘+’ or ‘-’ preﬁx
omitted), and this type of diff hunk is generally used to change
the code position.
Changelog. A changelog is a log or record of all notable
changes (e.g., bug ﬁxes, security patching, new features, etc.)
made to a project (Fig. 1(c) shows an example). Some open-
source projects include changelogs as one of the top-level ﬁles
in their distributions. Each changelog corresponds to one open-
source version, and one changelog is composed of multiple
git logs. Changelogs need to be written according to certain
speciﬁcation and its creation is a time-consuming manual pro-
cess [33]. It is worth noting that some versions of software do
not have changelogs, either because they were released before
the changelog writing speciﬁcation was formed, or because the
vendors simply did not write one. Thus, while we regard the
information recorded in the changelogs as ground truth in our
research, we do not assume the record list of changelogs for a
software project is complete.
Git Log. It is a log generated by the command “git log [<
options >] [< revision range >] [[-] < path > ...]” [34], and
it can be used to show project history [35], [36], [37], [38] and
search for speciﬁc changes. Fig. 1(d) shows a part of the git
log list, which is a collection of git logs in chronological order.
Here each line represents a git log title, and the details recorded
in a git log include the commit-id, the commit time of patch,
diff hunks, the author and committer of this log (see Fig. 1(e)).
A git log is a modiﬁcation record of the source code, which
is identiﬁed by a unique commit-id. Note that the developer
can make new git commits for reasons other than ﬁxing bugs
reported by CVEs; therefore, while each CVE-ID corresponds
to a commit-id, many commit-ids have nothing to do with CVEs.
Because git logs are recorded by the system program, we regard
the information recorded in the git logs as ground truth in our
research.
III. RESEARCH GOALS AND CHALLENGES
ResearchGoal.CorrespondingtoagivenCVE-ID,theKnown
Affected Software conﬁgurations section in NVD reports a list
(or a set) of software versions impacted by the vulnerable source
code. Prior research [14], [15] (as well as our investigation) has
shown that such information may be inaccurate. We ﬁnd that
in most cases, the NVD includes in this section all versions
whose version numbers are below the “up to” version (the last
vulnerable version reported, see Fig. 1(a)). Therefore, for each
CVE-ID, we choose the false positive rate and the false negative
rate as the performance metrics to quantify the inaccuracy of this
set. We use developer log as evidence to accurately determine
which versions are truly affected by a given CVE-ID. From
another perspective, for a CVE-ID, we determine the boundary
of vulnerable versions in the version tree that contains all the
versions.
Challenges. There are three main challenges in this research.
(C1) Lack of convincing evidences. To identify and justify
the exact CVE affected vulnerable program versions, the most
challenging task is to provide convincing evidences to the output
of the methods. The veriﬁcation by PoC(Proof of Concept) is the
most reliable, but not scalable and practical in our task. There
are different methods and source of information regarding to the
CVE affected versions, but they usually give conﬂicting results.
As software source codes are changing over time, vulnerabilities
are introduced, transformed, patched, and repatched with a new
patch. We observed that a CVE patch present in a software
version is neither a sufﬁcient nor a necessary condition to prove
that the version is ﬁxed respect to the CVE. In this article, we
assume that patches are correct and trustworthy. Therefore, if a
patch is present in the software version, we consider a software
version is ﬁxed; but if a patch is not present, we cannot decide if
a version is really affected by only depending on patch presence
test methods. (C2) Large scale of source codes of different
versions. Since the set affected by the vulnerability may cover
all published versions, how to efﬁciently and accurately identify
the vulnerability version set for a large scale of software versions
is a challenge. The traditional method is to check each software
version separately. However, regardless of static or dynamic
detection methods, with the continuous source code version
updates, the number of software versions becomes very large,
so the efﬁciency problem. (C3) Continuous transformation of
the source code. Due to the continuous update and release of
open source software versions, a vulnerability code may have
undergone many changes in some earlier versions, which leads
to incomplete matching between source code and the patch ﬁle
for newer versions. Traditional detection methods relying on
patch presence test are difﬁcult to accurately check such code
whether there are vulnerabilities in the partial matching codes.
Our Approaches to the Challenges. To overcome the chal-
lenge C1, we leverage the information contained in version tree
and developer logs because they contain ﬁrsthand and reliable
evidences for the state transition of the vulnerabilities, which
is presented in Sections IV-A, IV-B, and IV-D. For C2, we
construct a version tree and ﬁnd the boundary of the affected
versionsinthistreecollectively,insteadofcheckingeachversion
separately, which is presented in Section IV-A and IV-C. For C3,
We classify the different types of partial matching and trace the
developer logs to counter this challenge, which is described in
Section IV-D.
IV. RESEARCH METHODOLOGY
Overview of Our Method. Fig. 3 gives an overview of our
method, which consists of three steps. The required input in-
cludes the CVE-IDs for an open-source software project under
investigation, the set of open-source code for all its versions,
and the developer logs (including the set of changelogs and
the set of git logs corresponding to the CVE-IDs). The ﬁrst
step is to build the version tree and obtain a version number
set over which the vulnerability has been patched according
to the commit-ids recorded in the changelogs. Based on this
version set, the second step involves three different processing
directions: (R1) to determine the last vulnerable version number
in the trunk of the version tree, (R2) to determine the vulnerable
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 15,2026 at 04:05:42 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


===== PAGE 5 =====
HE et al.: AUTOMATICALLY IDENTIFYING CVE AFFECTED VERSIONS WITH PATCHES AND DEVELOPER LOGS
909
Fig. 3.
Overview of our approach with three major steps numbered from 1 to 3.
version of each version branch and (R3) to determine the ﬁrst
vulnerable version. To ensure the accuracy of the results, in this
step, we need address some special problems, such as solving
the vulnerability reappearance problem, using developer logs to
detect whether there are vulnerabilities in the partial matching
source code. Finally, we compare the vulnerable version set of
our tool against the vulnerable version set accoding to the NVD,
and report the error rate of the NVD set. Among them, if there is
a CVE vulnerability in a certain version but not reported in the
NVD, it is a false negative case. If a certain version has no CVE
vulnerability but is reported in the NVD, it is a false positive
case.
A. Build Version Tree and Acquire Committed Version Set
Software versions are published in git as tags. Every tag
has its commit log in which parent commits are recorded. We
can build the version tree by recursively traversing from the
commit logs of versions to its parent and grand parent commit
logs. However, there is a common protocol to arrange versions.
Taking the Linux operating system as an example, the team
publicly announced the types of versions on the Linux kernel
ofﬁcial website, including main branch version (Mainline), sta-
ble version and long-term version. The main branch version is
the starting point version of each vertical branch in the version
tree, which introduces all new functions based on the previous
main branch version. From the main branch version, new stable
versions are released later one by one, which form the trunk of
the version tree. Based on this protocol, we can build the version
tree for Linux kernel by digits in its version. Next we brieﬂy
introduce a few notations about the version tree and give an
example. We refer to the overall structure of the software release
versions as a version tree, with the ﬁrst version as the root node
Vroot. Fig. 4 shows an example version tree with version 1.0
Fig. 4.
Version tree: structural model of source code release versions. A red
triangular node represents a vulnerable version, a red triangular node in green
dotted circle represents a known unpatched version, a blue node represents a
version with unknown status. R1, R2, R3 indicate the three directions in which
we are looking for other vulnerable versions.
as Vroot. In the version tree, nodes, Vi.j, with two digit version
numbers (e.g., versions 2.6 and 4.0) are called major versions,
and nodes Vi.j.k with three digit version numbers (e.g., versions
3.3.5 and 5.0.4) are called minor versions, and they are located
in the branches of the corresponding major versions. For the
version branch of Vi.j, we refer to the end of the branch (i.e., its
largest minor version) as Vi.j.E (e.g., version 3.3.22 in Fig. 4).
In addition, we use V i.j.k to denote a vulnerable version, and
V i.j.U is the last (or upto) vulnerable version in the branch of
Vi.j. We also use V i.j.k(E) (‘E’ means “excluding”) to denote
the vulnerable version immediately before Vi.j.k, where Vi.j.k is
not vulnerable (i.e., patched). Finally, for each reported vulnera-
bility (CVE-ID), we use V from and V upto to denote its ﬁrst and
last vulnerable versions in the entire version tree, respectively.
Speciﬁcally, as shown in Fig. 4, for a given CVE-ID, we will
search the other vulnerable versions in the version tree in three
directions R1, R2, R3. R1 is the direction (process) to ﬁnd the
ﬁrst vulnerable version V from, R2 is to ﬁnd the last vulnerable
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 15,2026 at 04:05:42 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


===== PAGE 6 =====
910
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON DEPENDABLE AND SECURE COMPUTING, VOL. 21, NO. 2, MARCH/APRIL 2024
version V i.j.U in each version branch, R3 is to ﬁnd the actual
last version V upto of the entire version tree, which could be later
than the upto version reported in NVD.
Generally, there are one or more patches to ﬁx a CVE. In
most cases, a CVE-ID corresponds to one git log, and a git log
is identiﬁed by a commit-id. But sometimes there are more than
one commit-id to ﬁx a CVE when there are several patches for
the CVE. As long as the changed code (vulnerability ﬁxes, bug
ﬁxes, etc.) is submitted, git logs will be created. Therefore, each
patched version is uniquely identiﬁed by a commit-id or several
commit-ids. We ﬁrst obtain the commit-ids corresponding to
the CVE-ID, and then explore the changelog information. A
changelog corresponds to the release of a new version, and it
records all modiﬁcations to the previous version. Therefore,
a changelog typically records many different git logs, so it is
shorthand format for git logs. Although each change log is not
completely consistent with the writing structure of a git log,
there is no difference in key content information such as the
commit-ids. If all commit-ids of a CVE are included in the
changelog, it indicates that the CVE vulnerability has been
patched in the current version. Thus, we use the commit-ids
located by CVE-ID to traverse all changelogs available to obtain
the committed (i.e., patched) version set. We regard them as the
known patched versions.
As a running example, let us assume the three versions in
green dashed circles in Fig. 4 form the committed version set of
this CVE-ID, in which V3.0.6 and V4.0.4 are the minimum and
maximum committed version, respectively. However, not every
branch corresponds to a committed version, and the reason will
be introduced in Section IV-C.
B. Determine the Last Vulnerable Version of CVE-ID (R1)
As the maximum committed version recorded by the changel-
ogs, can V4.0.4 be used as V upto of this CVE-ID? Is the same
vulnerability deﬁnitely gone after V4.0.4? The answer is no.
In this section, We will combine developer logs and patches to
determine V upto. To make it easier to understand, we ﬁrst give
two examples to illustrate the problem. During our research, we
ﬁnd an interesting phenomenon: starting from a certain version
after the maximum committed version, the code may be restored
to its previous unpatched state. Let us take CVE-2014-9715 as an
example. The reason for its existence is that insufﬁciently large
data type was used for certain extension data, which allows local
userstocauseadenialofservice.Fromchangelogs,weknowthat
itsmaximumcommittedversionis V3.14.5.However,weﬁndthat
starting from V4.12, the code returned to the original unpatched
state. According to the git log of CVE-2014-9715, this patch
solves the denial of service vulnerability by reducing the size of
the “ecache extension”. However,in its git log, the committers
regarded that the previous patch released three years ago did not
ﬁx this vulnerability well. Therefore, they restored the code to its
unpatched state, and put forward the method of “compile-time
assertion” to repatch the vulnerability. This illustrates the case
that although the code is unpatched, the vulnerability corre-
sponding to this CVE-ID no longer exists. In another example
with CVE-2015-8558, unpatched code also reappeared in the
version after the maximum committed version. Similarly, from
the description of the log information, the developers said that
they used a new approach to patch the previous vulnerability,
different from the ﬁrst patch.
Patches are developed and used to ﬁx bugs. However,
some patches are correct but do not perform as good as ex-
pected(correct but not good), or do not ﬁx the bugs com-
pletely(incomplete), or introduce new bugs(wrong). Conse-
quently, the earlier committed patches may be totally unpatched
or patially unptached, and then newer patches are commited
(“repatch”). According to our study, the repathes is an inevitable
issues through all versions of Linux Kernel and the number of
repatches is signiﬁcant. In order to achieve high precision of
identifying the affected versions, it is important to consider the
phenomenon, otherwise, the errors are non-negligible and not
acceptable. Our tool is based on the assumption of correctness
of patches, so that we only consider repatches that the earlier
patches are correct, then unpatched totally or partially, ﬁnnaly
repatched with better patches. We do not consider wrong or
incomplete patches.
For a given CVE-ID, patch-based detection [19], [20] will
mistake the above repatch cases as “vulnerability reappearance”,
so how do we verify whether the unpatched code has a real
vulnerability? We already know that the information in the
changelog is sometimes incomplete, so it is not enough to rely
only on it. For example, for CVE-2018-21008, the NVD report
shows that the last vulnerable version is 4.16.6, and the maxi-
mum committed version based on the changelogs is 4.14.166,
but there are still unpatched versions after 4.16.6. Our solution is
to use both the patches and developer logs to accurately identify
the unpatched code. In the case of repatch, our research found
that it always includes the following two operations in the git
log: (1) unpatch, consisting of complete unpatch and partial
unpatch.Completeunpatchrestoresthepreviousunpatchedstate
and changing the ‘-’ in diff hunk to ‘+’ and ‘+’ to ‘-’, which is
an inverse process of patching. Patial unpatch is a partial inverse
process of patching. It is similar to complete unpatch except that
it only includes part of the diff hunk. (2) repatch, applying a new
patch to the unpatched code.
We cannot easily locate the diff hunks of repatched code
through a CVE because a repatch is not released as a new
CVE. Fortunately, the git log of a repatch clearly and accurately
describes which previous patch(es) is(are) replaced by including
the commmit-id of the previous git log in the title or the text
body of the new git log for the repatch. We notice that the two
operations of repatch, unpatch and repatch, may be carried out
in one commit, resulting in a single git log. Compared with a
previous patch, the location of a repatch may be the same code
block in the same ﬁle, such as the repatch of CVE-2017-7477.
It can also ﬁx code blocks in different locations of the same ﬁle,
such as the repatch of CVE-2018-5873. It may also ﬁx code
blocks in different ﬁles, such as the repatch of CVE-2014-9715.
The two operations of repatch may also be carried out in two
separate commits, resulting in two different git logs. The git
log for the repatch operation can be located in the same git
log list indexed by the same vulnerable ﬁle, the author, or the
committer of the patch. Again, we can get the diff hunks of
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 15,2026 at 04:05:42 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


===== PAGE 7 =====
HE et al.: AUTOMATICALLY IDENTIFYING CVE AFFECTED VERSIONS WITH PATCHES AND DEVELOPER LOGS
911
the repatch after locating the previous commit-id in the title or
text body of git log, for example, the diff hunk of “repatch” of
CVE-2014-9715. We use it against the nf_conntrack_core.c
ﬁle to judge the existence of this vulnerability. Through the
above process we can accurately justify whether there is an
unpatched CVE vulnerability (i.e., without being repatched)
after the maximum committed version.
Next, we present our algorithm for determining V upto with
our running example in Fig. 4. Here, V4.0.4 is the highest version
of the committed version set. First, we determine whether the
unpatched code still exists in major versions after V4.0.4 based
on exact matching. If it does not exist, it means the vulnerability
has been ﬁxed in all versions after V4.0.4, so V4.0.4 is regarded
as V upto(E). On the other hand, if unpatched code exists in
a later major version, say V5.0, we will check if a repatch has
been applied to it to avoid false reporting. Speciﬁcally, we ﬁrst
check whether there is an unpatch status in the git log list of the
vulnerable ﬁle. if it does not exist, repatch cannot exist either,
so the last unpatched version will be regarded as V upto(I).
However, if unpatch exists, we will check if a repatch exists in
the git log list indexed by the same vulnerable ﬁle, the author or
the committer of the patch, and accordingly locate the diff hunk,
as described in the paragraph above. If V5.0 has been repatched, it
does not have this vulnerability any more, so V4.0.4 is regarded
as V upto(E). On the contrary, if the last unpatched version,
say V5.0.3, has not been repatched, and it will be regarded as
V upto(I). Therefore, we accurately determined the boundary of
the vulnerable versions on the far right of the version tree.
C. Determine the Last Vulnerable Version in Each Branch (R2)
The committed version set output from R1 of our tool does not
giveusthecompleteknowledgeonthevulnerableversions.First,
some branches in the version tree may correspond to non-long-
term stable versions [39], and they are no longer maintained.
Therefore, even though the versions in these branches are still
vulnerable with respect to a CVE, they are no longer patched.
In other words, although not covered in the committed version
set, there may be vulnerable versions in these branches. Second,
some versions may have no changelogs submitted, so they have
slipped out from our detection, because our tool uses changelogs
as the input to generate the committed version set.
To address the problem, intuitively we can check each version
against the patch. This is clearly inefﬁcient and unscalable.
Instead, we leverage the following heuristics: (1) in each version
branch, the release time of a minor version Vi.j.k must be later
than the major version Vi.j or the earlier minor version Vi.j.k−1,
(2) a changelog states which vulnerabilities it has ﬁxed and
it is released together with the current software version. For
example, if V4.14.177 in Fig. 5 is a committed version (because
its changelog states the vulnerability has been ﬁxed), the vul-
nerability must not exist in V4.14.178 and the other later minor
version. The similar examples include V4.19.116, V5.4.33 etc.
Let us denote the disclosure time of the CVE as TCV E. As
reported by Li et al. [40], CVE publication time in NVD is not the
same as CVE disclosure time, but the median difference is only
Fig. 5.
The relationship between CVE-ID committed time and version release
time.
Fig. 6.
Look for the upper boundary of the vulnerability in the version tree.
one month, so that we can use CVE publication time to approx-
imate its disclosure time. When the CVE is released, it may or
maynothavepatchesavailable.WeuseTCV E toquicklyidentify
the potentially vulnerable versions in each branch. Speciﬁcally,
for each branch, we ﬁrst compare TE, which is the release time
of its last version Vi.j.E, with TCV E. If TE < TCV E, that is,
version Vi.j.E was released before the CVE, we then determine
whether Vi.j.E contains the vulnerable code by matching against
the patch. If it is an exact match (not patched), we directly take
Vi.j.E as V i.j.U(I) of this branch. If it is a partial match, we will
use the method in the next subsection to verify whether Vi.j.E
has the vulnerability. Otherwise, we will look for the boundary
in the earlier versions backward,If the boundary does not exist,
then Vi.j.E is considered as V i.j.U. Otherwise we refer to the last
unpatched version as V i.j.U, and verify that the patching record
oftheversionfollowingtheboundaryversionismissingfromthe
changelog. Therefore, we accurately determined the boundary
of the vulnerable versions in each branch of the version tree.
D. Determine the First Vulnerable Version Number of CVE-ID
(R3)
For a given CVE-ID, once we discover V from and V upto, the
boundary containing all the vulnerable versions is determined.
However, it is very challenging to identify the ﬁrst vulnerable
version V from. On the one hand, we should not immediately
label the minimum committed version reported by changelog
(e.g., V3.0.6 in Fig. 4) as V from, because early versions might
not have the corresponding changelog or the changelog was
incomplete. On the other hand, open-source code versions are
continuously updated and released and for some early versions,
the code related to the CVE vulnerability may have gone through
many changes, so that they can not be matched exactly with the
patches. Recall that it is a partial match when a diff hunk does
not completely match the corresponding source code. In theory,
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 15,2026 at 04:05:42 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


===== PAGE 8 =====
912
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON DEPENDABLE AND SECURE COMPUTING, VOL. 21, NO. 2, MARCH/APRIL 2024
Fig. 7.
Examples of partial matching code (The left side shows the diff hunk
(DH) of each CVE patch, and the right side shows the corresponding source
code fragment (SF)).
the software versions that are partially matched with patches
may or may not be vulnerable.
In order to leverage the information of partial matches, we ﬁrst
classify partial matches into three categories, and then we design
the method to locate the partially matching code fragments based
on the diff hunk(s) of a given CVE. Finally we justify whether
the code has the CVE vulnerability based on git logs and partial
matches so as to determine the ﬁrst vulnerable version V from.
1) Classiﬁcation and Detection of Partial Matches: By ana-
lyzing the partial matches in a large number of early versions,
we summarize the code features into the following three cate-
gories, and then we detect and locate the matching source code
fragments according to their categories. For ease of presentation,
we introduce a few notations. We use DH to denote a Diff Hunk
composed of sub and oth, Fun to denote the vulnerable Function,
and SF to denote the Source code Fragment in the CVE-speciﬁed
ﬁle corresponding to the DH. In Fig. 7(a) and (b), “Function()”
in the DH (also in SF) represents the Fun, and in Fig. 7(c),
“FunctionB1()” of the DH represents the Fun.
Case 1. The SF only partially matches oth of the DH. As
shown in Fig. 7(a), corresponding to the oth code in the DH, SF
does not call funcD1 and it has “return err” instead of the “break”
statement in the “if(err)” branch. Moreover, it calls funcD2,
which has a different name from funcD1 in oth. In this case,
SF contains all the code in sub.
Case 2. The SF partially matches the sub of the DH. As shown
in Fig. 7(b), the SF lacks “int n” and “if” statements of the DH.
For oth, SF may not contain the entire oth, but it contains at least
one oth and one sub statement.
Case 3. The SF only partially matches the contextual func-
tions of the DH, but the SF contains the entire sub. As shown in
Fig. 7(c), contextual functions A1 and C1 are used to locate the
vulnerable function B1 in DH, but they are named A2 and C2
in the SF. Although the functions B1 and B2 also have different
parameters, they might still be the same vulnerable function.
For example, for CVE-2013-1959, the function used to locate
Fun is “set_cred_user_ns”, but this function does not exist in SF
before the Linux kernel version 3.8. For CVE-2017-14991, the
Fun is “sg_ﬁll_request_table”, but before Linux kernel version
4.13, the function in SF is “sg_ioctl”, and they are the same
vulnerable code in different functions. For CVE-2017-8069, the
contextual function of the DH is “async_set_reg_cb”, but it is
the “ctrl_callback” function in the SF in Linux kernel version
3.2.86.
Given the Diff Hunk(DH) of a CVE, we will detect and locate
all the Source code Fragments (SFs) in the early versions for
three partial match cases, respectively. The high level idea of
our algorithm is as follows. In all three cases, there is at least
one line of matched code in SF with that in DH. Therefore, we
use one or two lines of matched code as the anchor point to
select three blocks of code in the function(Fun) of the source
code. Let us take the example of only one line of Matched Code
(called MC), and assume there are L1 and L2 lines of code before
MC and after MC, respectively, in the DH. To locate SF, in the
Fun of the source code, we select L1 and L2 lines of code before
Matched Code(MC) and after MC as the ﬁrst and the third block,
respectively while MC serves as the second block. When there
are two or more lines of matched code, the code in the source
code between the ﬁrst MC and the last MC forms the second
block while the ﬁrst and third blocks are selected in the same
way as previously. The detailed algorithm is presented in the
supplemental document (available online).
2) Justify the Vulnerable Versions by Git Logs: After we lo-
cated all the Source code Fragments(SFs) in the partial matches,
we will justify whether these SFs contain the vulnerability with
the help of git log information. We propose an automatic log
tracing method to trace the corresponding git logs. We illustrate
our idea through the example in Fig. 8. Here, with respect to
a CVE, the versions between V1.0 and V2.1 shared the same
(partial matching) source code fragment SF3. After an update
on SF3, the versions between V2.2 and V2.5 shared the same
SF2. After another update on SF2, the versions starting from
V2.6 shared the (exact matching) SF1. Let sf-diff represent the
difference between the SFs of two versions, and it can be
generated through a diff tool [41]. Since each update resulted
in a git log that recorded the difference in the form of a Diff
Hunk, we can use each sf-diff to traverse every git log in the
git log list whose release time was earlier than TCV E, and ﬁnd
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 15,2026 at 04:05:42 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


===== PAGE 9 =====
HE et al.: AUTOMATICALLY IDENTIFYING CVE AFFECTED VERSIONS WITH PATCHES AND DEVELOPER LOGS
913
Fig. 8.
Some earlier major versions that are continuously updated. V2.2 to
V2.5 have the same partial matching vulnerable code (red dotted frame).
the corresponding git log by exactly matching the sf-diff against
the DHs in the git logs. Then, we manually use log information
(e.g., description, commit-id) to accurately determine whether
the current version is vulnerable. This process is done for each
sf-diff in the backward temporal order. Note that a sf-diff may
consist of multiple consecutive diff hunks, and the diff hunks
may be recorded in multiple git logs.
Propercommitmessageswithinformationaboutwhatisbeing
merged and why they merge are not always logged [42]. There-
fore, our justiﬁcation result for a partially matching software
version can be divided into three types: Yes, No, Probable.
Among them, “Yes” means it is a vulnerable version because
there is detailed information in the git logs, such as the exploit
of Proof-of-Concept (POC) or the dependency relationship of
the vulnerability, which is established in the form of text or
commit-id.“No”meansitisanonvulnerableversionbecausethe
CVE-related Source fragments (SFs) does not exist. “Probable”
means it is a suspicious version because we have no sufﬁcient
information. It is worth noting that, in order to ensure the in-
tegrity of the results, although some partially matching versions
need to be reviewed by human experts to determine whether the
code is vulnerable, the proportion of these versions is small and
the cost is not high. We will report the number of CVEs/commit
that require manual inspection and the total man-hours spend in
the next evaluation section.
We use one example to illustrate the idea. According to
description of CVE-2011-2521, there is a vulnerability in func-
tion ”x86_assign_hw_event”. However, when our tool checks
the patch, many earlier versions are partially matched. By log
tracing based on the commit-id of the patch, it is found that this
vulnerability was originally introduced from the commit
41bf498, and patched twice afterwards because the ﬁrst patch
was not complete. This example demonstrates how the log
tracing helps to identify the ﬁrst version of the vulnerability,
3) The Method to Find the First Vulnerable Version: Our
algorithm for determining V from is as following. First, for
a CVE-ID, we obtain the matching results (exact or partial
matching) by checking each major version before the minimum
committed version in the version tree (e.g., V3.0.6 in Fig. 9). If all
the matching results are exact matches, then the ﬁrst vulnerable
version is the earliest version with exact matching. Otherwise,
Fig. 9.
Identify the ﬁrst vulnerable version in the version tree.
TABLE I
WEBSITE DISTRIBUTION OF PATCHES
we determine V from by the log tracing and vulnerability jus-
tiﬁcation methods introduced in Section IV-D2. We illustrate
the process for determining V from with our example in Fig. 8.
In the ﬁrst step, we ﬁnd the ﬁrst exact matching major version
before V3.0. If it is Vroot, then Vroot is V from. If it is not, the
ﬁrst exact matching version, say V2.6, will be regarded as V from
as long as the vulnerable ﬁle does not exist in the early version
V2.5. Otherwise, in the second step, if the last partial matching
versionV2.5 doesnotcontainthevulnerabilityoritsvulnerability
status cannot be veriﬁed by us, V2.6 is regarded as V from. If
the vulnerability exists, the versions before V2.5 with the same
partial matching code are all regarded as vulnerable versions. In
the backward order, through log tracing, eventually we will be
able to identify the ﬁrst vulnerable version and label it as V from.
V. EVALUATION
We ﬁrst brieﬂy introduce the implementation of our system,
and then evaluate the effectiveness of our algorithms via stan-
dard metrics such as precision and recall. Let TP be the number
of true vulnerabilities detected (true-positives), FP be the num-
ber of false vulnerabilities detected (false-positives), and FN be
the number of true vulnerabilities undetected (false-negatives).
The metric precision = TP/(TP + FP) reﬂects the correctness
among the detected positives. The metric recall =TP/(TP + FN)
reﬂects the completeness of the detected positives.
A. Implementation
We implemented our system in Python 3.6.0. Our experi-
ments ran on a PC with Intel CPU core i5-8265 U operating at
1.80 GHz and 8 GB RAM. The implementation consists of Data
Crawler, Vulnerable Version Finder, Log Tracer, and Result
Generator. Data Crawler connects to the speciﬁed URLs to
collect and preprocess software packages (such as Linux kernel,
Qemu, OpenSSL), CVE database, patches, and Changelogs etc.
Vulnerable Version Finder implements the algorithms in R1,
R2 and R3 to ﬁnd the ﬁrst(‘from’) and last(‘upto’) vulnerable
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 15,2026 at 04:05:42 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


===== PAGE 10 =====
914
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON DEPENDABLE AND SECURE COMPUTING, VOL. 21, NO. 2, MARCH/APRIL 2024
TABLE II
THE RESULT STATISTICS OF DETERMINING THE FIRST VULNERABLE VERSION OF EACH CVE-ID IN THE LINUX KERNEL VERSION TREE
versions. Log Tracer searches the logs to ﬁnd evidences of
the vulnerability status. Finally, Result Generator compares the
results from Vulnerable Version Finder with the Known Affected
Software Conﬁgurations of the NVD, and outputs the justiﬁed
affected versions and the accuracy of the NVD.
B. Experimental Setup and Dataset
Dataset. This article mainly selects the following products,
including Linux kernel, Openssl, BusyBox, Wget and QEMU.
The source websites of their patches are shown in Table II.
Taking Linux kernel as an example, after the ﬁnal screening,
there are 1,367 CVE ﬁles in our database, including many vul-
nerability types such as buffer overﬂow, integer overﬂow, SQL
injection, use-after-free and many others. We collected Linux
kernel vulnerabilities released from January 2003 to September
2020 from the NVD, which resulted in 2,576 CVE -IDs in total.
Among them, 1,367 were published in https://git.kernel.org,
including 2,664 patches. The rest correspond to the secondary
development versions based on the Linux kernel, and their
patches might not exist or were scattered on various third-party
websites, so these CVE-IDs are not within our consideration. In
addition, we collected a total of 3,086 Linux kernel versions that
make up its version tree, taking 585 G of data space.
C. Accuracy Evaluation
We scan 1,367 CVE-IDs of Linux kernel against its 3,086
open-sourceversionstodetectallvulnerableversionsinthethree
directions (R1, R2 and R3). For our dataset, we manually verify
the reported boundary of vulnerable versions in the version tree
foreachCVE-ID.NotethatfortheTPsofthereportedvulnerable
version set, we can verify them by manual inspection. However,
for FNs, since there are a great number of software versions(we
do not regard the versions reported by NVD as the ground truth
because it has many errors, as presented in the next subsection),
we cannot directly report the FN rate or recall. Therefore, for
R1 and R2, we sample 100 CVE-IDs for manual inspection to
calculate the recall of our tool. As for R3, we determine the
lower bound of the recall. The evaluation results of our tool are
as follows:
R1. It represents the method of obtaining the last vulnerable
version of Linux kernel for a given CVE-ID. Manual veriﬁcation
shows that the reported vulnerable versions has no false positive,
and the precision reaches 100%. Among the 100 sampled CVE-
IDs, there are unpatched codes in the next major versions with
respect to 4 CVE-ids, and there is no repatch found. So the lower
bound of the recall rate is 96%. The incomplete patches and
errors in git logs are possible causes behind these false negative
cases.
R2. It represents the method of determining the last vulnerable
version in each version branch. Our manual inspection shows
that the precision of the reported versions also reaches 100%.
We again sample 100 different CVE-IDs for manual inspection,
which shows that there are unpatched codes in the next minor
versions with respect to 2 CVE-IDs, so the recall rate is at least
98% for the samples. The reasons for the false negatives are as
above.
R3.Itrepresentsthemethodofdeterminingtheﬁrstvulnerable
versionV from bybackwardtraversingthemajorversionsbefore
the minimum committed version (reported by changelog) in the
version tree. As shown in Table II, among the 1,367 CVE-IDs,
337 of them have some partial matching versions and the re-
maining 1,030 only have exact matching versions. Among the
matching results, we add up the number of vulnerable versions
detected by each CVE-ID, and the total number is 37,685,
including 32,903 exact matching versions and 4,782 partial
matching versions. Because different CVE-IDs may correspond
to different source code fragments SFs in the same version, a
vulnerable version may be counted more than one time. For
the 1,030 exact matching only CVE-IDs, since the ﬁrst exact
matching version will be regarded as V from, we ﬁrst check
the versions right before our reported version V from. Among
them, it is found that either the CVE-speciﬁed ﬁle does not
exist, or there is no vulnerable function (Fun) in the source code.
Therefore, the V from under our exact matching method has no
false negative. Our tool spent 10.2 hours for this process in total.
For the remaining 337 CVE-IDs with partial matches, we
only check the major versions with different partial matching
code, not the minor versions. Our statistics shows that on average
one CVE-ID corresponds to 2 different sf-diffs. To evaluate our
partial matching algorithm and obtain the accurate V from for
each CVE-ID, we need to check at least 532 times, and we
spent about 3.3 hours to verity the partial matching code. Since
the partial matching code is similar to the CVE patch, we can
determine that the code has a potential vulnerability, but whether
it has a real vulnerability or not needs to be conﬁrmed through
context-based dynamic analysis and POC construction, which
requires huge investment and cost. Fortunately, git logs record
the ﬁx process of a vulnerability, including the release of CVE,
which is the ground truth for our justiﬁcation of the vulnerability.
However, if the git log information did not record whether the
code is related to a vulnerability, it is probable that the code has
a vulnerability, or it may be just a bug that was ﬁxed. Speciﬁ-
cally, if a git log is in the following two situations, we cannot
directly determine whether it has the vulnerability: (1) The log
information is incomplete. (2) the log information is complete,
but it does not record the relationship with the vulnerability. In
this case, the V from for this CVE-ID is the earliest vulnerable
version in the version tree that we can manually determine.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 15,2026 at 04:05:42 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


===== PAGE 11 =====
HE et al.: AUTOMATICALLY IDENTIFYING CVE AFFECTED VERSIONS WITH PATCHES AND DEVELOPER LOGS
915
Fig. 10.
Comparison of last vulnerable versions.
Fig. 11.
Comparison of ﬁrst vulnerable versions.
In the end, there are 12 partial matching versions of CVE,
which makes it impossible to determine whether there are
any vulnerabilities in this study. There are 74 corresponding
versions, accounting for nearly 3.6% of 337 CVEs. Among
the remaining 325 CVEs, if some matching codes are directly
identiﬁed as vulnerabilities by our tool, through log veriﬁcation,
it is found that there are 19 CVEs with false positives and
4 CVEs with false negatives, corresponding to 172 versions
and 39 versions respectively. Therefore, assuming that all 74
unconﬁrmed versions have corresponding CVE vulnerabilities,
the total number of false negatives is 113 (74 plus 39) versions,
and the total number of true positives is 4669 versions, so the
lower limit of recall rate of this tool is 97.6%. At the same
time, the number of false positives is 172 versions, and the
corresponding number of true positives is 4610 versions, so
the correct rate of this tool is 96.4%. In the end, this scheme
corrected 19+4=23 CVE vulnerabilities that were incorrectly
identiﬁed by the tool through log veriﬁcation.
D. Incorrect Results of Known Affected Software Versions of
NVD
In this section, we will introduce the difference between the
result of our tool and the Known Affected Software Versions of
the NVD. We use the boundary versions (V upto, V i.j.U, V from)
in the version tree for each vulnerability, which we have veriﬁed
previously. It is worth noting that in this section we introduce
FP/FN for the NVD information, not FP/FN of our tool.
In Figs. 10 and 11, for fairness, we sample 273 versions at
intervals of 5 versions for mapping. The x-axis represents the
CVE-IDs from 2011/2003 to 2020 and the y-axis represents the
Fig. 12.
An example of CVE-2013-1826.
Fig. 13.
The error rate of last vulnerable version set of NVD.
version numbers. Due to the large amount of data, we hide the
scale of the x-axis. In Fig. 10, we can observe that in many cases
the maximum committed versions in the changelogs, the upto
versions (i.e., the last vulnerable version) of NVD, and the V upto
reported by our method are different. That is, in many cases
neither the upto versions reported by NVD nor the changelog
based maximum committed versions are correct. Take CVE-
2013-1826 as an example (see Fig. 12), for the branch of major
version V3.4, its V i.j.U should be minor version V3.4.13, which
is our veriﬁed version, but the NVD reported version is V3.4.122.
Therefore, it is regarded as a false negative case. In the second
example, for CVE-2017-15868, its V upto veriﬁed by our tool is
V3.18.63, but NVD reported V3.18.66 as its upto version; therefore,
this is regarded as a false positive case. In another example, for
CVE-2017-15951, its V upto veriﬁed by our tool is V4.13.9, but
the NVD upto version is V4.12.14, which is regarded as a false
negative case.
Fig. 11 shows the report on the from versions (i.e., the ﬁrst
vulnerable version) of each CVE in the NVD, and it can be seen
that most of the from versions it reported are version V1.2.0.
Throughourmethod,weﬁndthatinmostcases,V from isgreater
than version 1.2.0, which indicates that there are a lot of false
positives on the from versions of the NVD. For example, in our
vulnerable version set, V from of CVE-2015-7550 should be
version V2.6.10, but the NVD report is V1.2.0, so this from version
is regarded as a false positive. Finally, under our dataset, we
found 11,827 versions incorrectly reported in NVD. Our study
also shows that some versions missed records in changelogs.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 15,2026 at 04:05:42 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


===== PAGE 12 =====
916
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON DEPENDABLE AND SECURE COMPUTING, VOL. 21, NO. 2, MARCH/APRIL 2024
Fig. 14.
The error rate of all vulnerable version set of NVD.
Fig. 15.
Changelogs missing records of some patched versions.
For example, the maximum committed version of CVE-2020-
12655 in the changelog is V5.4.50, but the actual maximum
patched version is V5.7. Therefore, there was a missing record
of the corresponding changelog. As shown in Fig. 15, we found
94 versions have been patched, but their commit-ids were not
recorded in the corresponding changelogs. In particular, the
changelogs released in 2016 had the highest error rate 16% (36
out of 221 CVE-IDs released in 2016), followed by 6% in 2018
(20 out of 338 CVE-IDs released in 2018).
Overall, for the 1,367 Linux kernel CVE-IDs, the number of
false positives for the upto versions of the NVD reached 276,
and the number of false negatives reached 289, accounting for
20.19% and 21.14%, respectively. As shown in Figs. 13 and 14,
we show the error rates of upto versions of the NVD and the error
rates of all vulnerable version sets of the NVD over the years,
respectively. Corresponding to the CVE-IDs, the denominator
of the formula for calculating the rates is the total number of
vulnerable versions reported by the NVD in one year, and the
numerator is the number of false positives or false negatives for
those versions. Among the 1,367 CVE-IDs, the total number of
the vulnerable versions reported by NVD was 43,727, of which
the total number of false positives reached 2,497, and the total
number of false negatives reached 9,330, accounting for 5.7%
and 21.34%, respectively.
E. Comparison With ReDeBug and VUDDY
In this section, we will compare with two well-known vulner-
able code detection tools that are available, ReDeBug [32] and
Fig. 16.
In our ﬁve datasets, the number of repatch we found.
VUDDY [43]. ReDeBug uses a syntax-based pattern matching
approach to detect unpatched code clones in OS-distribution
scale code bases, and VUDDY uses coarse-grained function
feature values to detect code clones. Our vulnerability database
includes Linux kernel (totally 1,367 CVE-IDs, 2,664 security
patches by Sep. 2020), OpenSSL (totally 91 CVE-IDs, 165
patches by Jan. 2021), BusyBox (totally 13 CVE-IDs, 20 patches
by Jan.2021), Wget (totally 22 CVE-IDs, 31 patches by Jan.
2021), QEMU (totally 114 CVE-IDs, 145 patches by Jan.2021).
To measure and compare the accuracy of the three vulnera-
bility detection methods, we randomly select one version from
each of the above ﬁve pieces of software, as shown in the ﬁrst
column of Table III. We check each version against all the 2,576
CVE-IDs. With the ground truth (in total 69 vulnerabilities)
established by the developer logs (i.e., changelogs and git logs),
we show the accuracy of the three methods in Table III. One
can observe that neither ReDeBug [32] nor VUDDY [43] could
achieve high precision and recall here, whereas our method has
94.3%precisionand95.6%recall. SomeCVEsreleasedbyNVD
do not have corresponding patch(es), and these CVEs slipped out
from the detection of our tool, which is the reason for the 95.6%
recall of our tool. As shown in Fig. 16, under these ﬁve data sets,
weshowthenumberofrepatchescollectedbyyear.Aftermanual
veriﬁcation,itisfoundthatsomepartiallymatchedcodereported
by our tool do not have the CVE vulnerability, which is also the
reason for the 94.3% precision of our tool. We summarized the
reasons that led to the false positives and false negatives with
ReDebug and VUDDY: (1) they wrongly identiﬁed repatched
code (i.e., repatched in a different way) as a vulnerability, and
(2) some exact or partial matching vulnerable code were not
identiﬁed. Further, ReDebug detects by comparing the similarity
between patch and vulnerability code, and the granularity is
coarse, resulting in a large number of false positives. VUDDY
is designed to achieve low false positive rates, which appear to
be inherent to the approach of detecting vulnerabilities caused
by code clones. However, when using this approach to detecting
vulnerabilities that are not caused by code clones, high false
negative rates occur. Note that although here the measurement
results are not based on all versions with all CVE-IDs, it is
sufﬁcient to demonstrate the relative performance of different
methods and the weaknesses of the two existing methods. In
Appendix C, available in the online supplemental material, we
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 15,2026 at 04:05:42 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


===== PAGE 13 =====
HE et al.: AUTOMATICALLY IDENTIFYING CVE AFFECTED VERSIONS WITH PATCHES AND DEVELOPER LOGS
917
TABLE III
ACCURACY (I.E., TRUE POSITIVE, FALSE POSITIVE AND FALSE NEGATIVE) OF REDEBUG, VUDDY AND OUR METHOD
report the detailed results of 50 (out of 69 in total) vulnerabilities,
including the version number of the source code, CVE-ID,
vulnerability type, patch type, error type, etc.
VI. RELATED WORK
Reliability of the NVD. Quality issues in vulnerability
databases, such as the NVD, have been noted and studied
before. It is shown that the CVSS metric [11], [44] is more
suitable for enterprise software products, rather than personal
software products. Nguyen et al. [18] conducted an empirical
experiment on the reliability of the vulnerable Chrome versions
in the NVD. They use the Chrome vulnerabilities with the
bug-ﬁxes IDs to manually verify the inaccuracy of the NVD
report, but they cannot handle the situation without the bug IDs.
Dong et al. [14] analyzed a large number of inconsistencies
by extracting software names and software versions in public
security vulnerability reports, but they did not provide a practical
solution to justify the incorrect software versions of the NVD.
Anwar et al. [15] focused on the inconsistencies between the
entries of the NVD and the CVE, and they explored methods
for rectifying the vulnerability’s publication date, CWE class,
CVSS rating, and the affected CPE information of the NVD,
but we aim to use develop log to quantify the inaccuracy of the
Know Affected Software Versions of the NVD.
Vulnerability Detection. Security patches are released to dis-
cover and ﬁx the vulnerabilities that have been released. This is
also the most critical process for managing security systems.
Using patches to discover vulnerabilities in the system has
always been the focus of research in the security ﬁeld [45]. A
vulnerability detection system with a high false positive rate or a
high false negative rate is unusable. Many researchers [20], [25],
[32], [43] have studied the use of security patches for source
code vulnerability detection. However, only based on patches,
the error rate is still high. Li proposed VulDeePecker [23] using
RNN training on code snippets related to library/API function
calls to detect improper calls. The dataset they used in their
work tried to compare with VUDDY, but no false positives
of VUDDY were found. Further, considering silent security
patches, Xiao et al. [46] proposed MVP and they enriched the
dataset with commits obtained from their industrial collaborator,
but such datasets were not publicly accessible. The methods
proposed in [47], [48] use trees and graphs as the representation
methods for detecting vulnerabilities, and they cannot capture
the exact nuance of vulnerabilities, so than they are not suitable
for determining which vulnerable versions are really affected by
CVEs.
Reproducing Vulnerabilities. Reproducing a vulnerability is
the most convincing evidence for a vulnerable version. Her-
cules [49] is based on symbolic execution to generate input
examples to crash the software at the speciﬁed location. Sem-
fuzz [50] makes use of CVE reports and Linux git logs to
generatePoCexploits.Manyresearchproposesthetechniquesof
generating patch that ﬁxes the vulnerability based on examples,
while Huang et. al. [51] propose a property-based method to
generate vulnerability patches, but their method is dependent on
experts to specify the properties. As claimed in [17] reproduc-
ing a vulnerability requires information such as conﬁgurations,
trigger method, PoC, as well as a lot of manual work of experts,
meanwhile these information are usually incomplete or unavail-
able. It is very challenging especial for our task with a large sale
of software versions.
Fuzzing combines symbolic execution and constraint solving
to detect vulnerabilities. Cassez et al. [21] use a static analysis
tool for intermediate representation based on LLVM to check
whether there is a run of a speciﬁed error block and reach the
intermediate representation, which is mainly used to detect three
types of vulnerabilities: zero error, pointer overﬂow, and dead
code. In general, it is hard to perform directed fuzzing on Linux
kernel. On the one hand, entering the kernel layer depends on
the call of the application layer, which is equivalent to writing an
application layer call for each CVE. On the other hand, Linux
kernel is a large-scale system, which means that it has a very
large number of conditional branch instructions. It is difﬁcult for
fuzzing to ﬁnd the code where the diff hunk is located. Therefore,
this type of methods are very expensive to employ in the context
of vulnerability detection.
VII. DISCUSSION
Our method has several assumptions which may limit its ap-
plication. First, developer logs and patches may be unavailable.
Second, the software packages must be open-sourced. Third,
although we propose log tracing to reduce the search space, the
partial matching method still requires human experts to review
some commits to determine whether the code is vulnerable, but
the cost of this process is quite minor. In order to overcome
these limitations, future work is needed. For the problem of
unavailable patches, an approach is to identify and generate the
patch from the respective software versions. If the source code
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 15,2026 at 04:05:42 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


===== PAGE 14 =====
918
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON DEPENDABLE AND SECURE COMPUTING, VOL. 21, NO. 2, MARCH/APRIL 2024
is not open, binary based patch detection can be used. Natural
language processing can be used to lessen human efforts in the
partial matching. Errors in the developer logs and patches are
threats to validity. We have found some errors in the logs, al-
though the number of errors is very small in our evaluation, but it
will decrease the accuracy of the method if no additional checks
are introduced. Sometimes patches may not be implemented
correctly, which means that the software versions are vulnerable
even if they are patched. We plan to study how to identify
incorrect(incomplete or wrong) patches in the future work.
VIII. CONCLUSION
In this article, we proposed and implemented novel ideas
(by verifying CVE information with security patches and de-
veloper logs based on version tree) and techniques (including
partial matching and log tracing methods) to identify the known
vulnerable software versions with respect to the CVEs. By
comparison of the reports for Linux between our tool and the
NVD, we found that there were 11,827 incorrect vulnerable
versions of the NVD, and conﬁrmed that 94 patched versions
lacked committed records in the changelogs. For future research,
it will be interesting to solve the above limitations, and explore
whether partial matching and repatching can be extended for
binary code vulnerability detection.
REFERENCES
[1] “2021 open-source security and risk analysis report,” 2021. [Online].
Available: https://www.synopsys.com/content/dam/synopsys/sig-assets/
reports/rep-ossra-2021.pdf
[2] C. V. Lopes et al., “A map of code duplicates on GitHub,” Proc. ACM
Program. Lang., vol. 1, no. OOPSLA, pp. 1–28, 2017.
[3] “National vulnerability database,” 2021. [Online]. Available: https://nvd.
nist.gov/
[4] Developers, “Hakiri: Ships secure ruby apps,” 2019. [Online]. Available:
https://hakiri.io/
[5] Developers, “Synk: Develop fast: Stay secure,” 2019. [Online]. Available:
https://snyk.io/
[6] Developers, “Sourceclear: Software composition analysis for devsecops,”
2019. [Online]. Available: https://www.sourceclear.com/
[7] Developers, “Bundler-Audit,” 2019. [Online]. Available: https://github.
com/rubysec/bundler-audit
[8] Developers, “Sonatype | OSS index,”2019. [Online]. Available: https://
ossindex.sonatype.org/
[9] Developers, “OW ASP dependency check,” 2019. [Online]. Available:
https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Dependency_Check
[10] A. Anwar, A. Khormali, D. Nyang, and A. Mohaisen, “Understanding the
hidden cost of software vulnerabilities: Measurements and predictions,” in
Proc. Secur. Privacy Commun. Networks: 14th Int. Conf., SecureComm,
Singapore, Singapore, Aug. 8-10, 2018, pp. 377–395.
[11] A.
Horváth,
P.
M.
Erdsi,
and
F.
Kiss,
The
Common
Vulner-
ability Scoring System (CVSS) generations–usefulness deﬁciencies.
IT és hálózati sérülékenységek társadalmi-gazdasági hatásai, 2016,
pp. 137–153.
[12] F. Li and V. Paxson, “A large-scale empirical study of security patches,” in
Proc. ACM SIGSAC Conf. Comput. Commun. Secur., vol. 43, no. 1, 2017,
pp. 2201–2215.
[13] M. U. Aksu, K. Bicakci, M. H. Dilek, A. M. Ozbayoglu, and E. I.
Tatli, “Automated generation of attack graphs using NVD,” in Proc. 8th
ACM Conf. Data Application Secur. Privacy, Tempe, AZ, USA, 2018,
pp. 135–142.
[14] Y. Dong, W. Guo, Y. Chen, X. Xing, Y. Zhang, and G. Wang, “Towards
the detection of inconsistencies in public security vulnerability reports,”
in Proc. 28th USENIX Secur. Symp., Santa Clara, CA, USA, 2019,
pp. 869–885.
[15] A. Anwar, A. Abusnaina, S. Chen, F. Li, and D. Mohaisen, “Cleaning the
NVD: Comprehensive quality assessment, improvements, and analyses,”
IEEE Trans. Dependable Secure Comput., vol. 19, no. 6, pp. 4255–4269,
2021.
[16] J. Berr, ““WannaCry” ransomware attack losses could reach 4 billion,”
2019. [Online]. Available: https://cbsn.ws/2yYjif2
[17] D.Muetal.,“Understandingthereproducibilityofcrowd-reportedsecurity
vulnerabilities,”inProc.27thUSENIXSecur.Symp.,Baltimore,MD,USA,
2018, pp. 919–936.
[18] V. H. Nguyen and F. Massacci, “The (un)reliability of NVD vulnerable
versionsdata:AnempiricalexperimentonGooglechromevulnerabilities,”
in Proc. 8th ACM Symp. Inf. Comput. Commun. Secur., Hangzhou, China,
2013, pp. 493–498.
[19] T. Luo, C. Ni, Q. Han, M. Yang, J. Wu, and Y. Wu, “POSTER: PatchGen:
Towards automated patch detection and generation for 1-day vulnerabili-
ties,” in Proc. 22nd ACM SIGSAC Conf. Comput. Commun. Secur., Denver,
CO, USA, 2015, pp. 1656–1658.
[20] J. K. H. L. Hongzhe Li and H. Kwon, “A scalable approach for vul-
nerability discovery based on security patches,” in Applications and
Techniques in Information Security. Berlin, Germany: Springer, 2014,
pp. 109–122.
[21] M. Böhme, C. Cadar, and A. Roychoudhury, “Fuzzing: Challenges and
reﬂections,” IEEE Soft., vol. 38, no. 3, pp. 79–86, 2020.
[22] Z. Li, D. Zou, S. Xu, Z. Chen, Y. Zhu, and H. Jin, “VulDeeLocator:
A deep learning-based ﬁne-grained vulnerability detector,” IEEE Trans.
Dependable Secure Comput., vol. 19, no. 4, pp. 2821–2837, 2021.
[23] Z.Lietal.,“VulDeePecker: Adeeplearning-basedsystemforvulnerability
detection,” in Proc. 25th Annu. Netw. Distrib. System Secur. Symp., San
Diego, California, USA, 2018.
[24] W. Wang et al., “ContractWard: Automated vulnerability detection models
for ethereum smart contracts,” IEEE Trans. Netw. Sci. Eng., vol. 8, no. 2,
pp. 1133–1144, Second Quarter 2021.
[25] Z. Li, D. Zou, S. Xu, H. Jin, H. Qi, and J. Hu, “VulPecker: An automated
vulnerability detection system based on code similarity analysis,” in Proc.
32nd Annu. Conf. Comput. Secur. Appl., Los Angeles, CA, USA, 2016,
pp. 201–213.
[26] “What is CVE-ID,” 2021. [Online]. Available: https://www.redhat.com/
en/topics/security/what-is-cve
[27] “CVE numbering authorities,” 2021. [Online]. Available: https://cve.
mitre.org/cve/cna.html
[28] “Nation al institute of standards and technology,” 2021. [Online]. Avail-
able: https://www.nist.gov/
[29] “Security content automation protocol,” 2021. [Online]. Available: https:
//csrc.nist.gov/projects/security-content-automation-protocol
[30] “Know affected software conﬁgurations,” 2021. [Online]. Available: https:
//nvd.nist.gov/vuln/vulnerability-detail-pages
[31] “Posting patches,” 2021. [Online]. Available: https://www.kernel.org/doc/
html/latest/process/5.Posting.html
[32] J. Jang, A. Agrawal, and D. Brumley, “Redebug: Finding unpatched code
clones in entire OS distributions,” in Proc. IEEE Symp. Secur. Privacy,
vol. 37, no. 6, 2012, pp. 48–62.
[33] “Keep a changelog,” 2021. [Online]. Available: https://keepachangelog.
com/
[34] “Understanding git log,” 2021. [Online]. Available: https://mijingo.com/
blog/understanding-git-log
[35] “Git log in linux kernel source tree,” 2021. [Online]. Available: https:
//git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/torvalds/linux.git/log
[36] “Git log in busybox,” 2021. [Online]. Available: https://git.busybox.net/
busybox/log
[37] “Git log in QEMU,” 2021. [Online]. Available: https://git.qemu.org/git/
qemu.git
[38] “Git log in OpenSSL,” 2021. [Online]. Available: https://git.openssl.org
[39] “Active kernel releases,” 2021. [Online]. Available: https://www.kernel.
org/releases.html
[40] F. Li and V. Paxson, “A large-scale empirical study of security patches,”
in Proc. ACM SIGSAC Conf. Comput. Commun. Secur., Dallas, TX, USA,
2017, pp. 2201–2215.
[41] “Winmerge,” 2021. [Online]. Available: https://winmerge.org/
[42] “Linux kernel merges need to be done properly,” 2021. [Online]. Available:
https://lore.kernel.org/lkml/CAHk-=wjbtip559HcMG9VQLGPmkurh5K
c50y5BceL8Q8=aL0H3Q.mail.gmail.com/
[43] S. Kim, S. Woo, H. Lee, and H. Oh, “VUDDY: A scalable approach for
vulnerable code clone discovery,” in Proc. IEEE Symp. Secur. Privacy,
2017, San Jose, CA, USA, 2017, pp. 595–614.
[44] “Vulnerability metrics,” 2021. [Online]. Available: https://nvd.nist.gov/
vuln-metrics/cvss
[45] J. Pan, G. Yan, and X. Fan, “Digtool: A virtualization-based framework
for detecting kernel vulnerabilities,” in Proc. 26th USENIX Secur. Symp.,
2017, Vancouver, BC, Canada, 2017, pp. 149–165.
[46] Y. Xiao et al., “MVP: Detecting vulnerabilities using patch-enhanced
vulnerability signatures,” in Proc. 29th USENIX Secur. Symp., 2020,
pp. 1165–1182.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 15,2026 at 04:05:42 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


===== PAGE 15 =====
HE et al.: AUTOMATICALLY IDENTIFYING CVE AFFECTED VERSIONS WITH PATCHES AND DEVELOPER LOGS
919
[47] F. Yamaguchi, N. Golde, D. Arp, and K. Rieck, “Modeling and discovering
vulnerabilities with code property graphs,” in Proc. IEEE Symp. Secur.
Privacy, Berkeley, CA, USA, 2014, pp. 590–604.
[48] D. Zou et al., “SCVD: A new semantics-based approach for cloned
vulnerable code detection,” in Proc. 14th Int. Conf. Detection Intrusions
Malware Vulnerability Assessment, Bonn, Germany, 2017, pp. 325–344.
[49] V.-T. Pham, W. B. Ng, K. Rubinov, and A. Roychoudhury, “Hercules: Re-
producing crashes in real-world application binaries,” in Proc. IEEE/ACM
37th Int. Conf. Softw. Eng., 2015, pp. 891–901.
[50] W. You et al., “SemFuzz: Semantics-based automatic generation of proof-
of-concept exploits,” in Proc. ACM SIGSAC Conf. Comput. Commun.
Secur., Dallas, TX, USA, 2017, pp. 2139–2154.
[51] Z. Huang, D. Lie, G. Tan, and T. Jaeger, “Using safety properties to
generate vulnerability patches,” in Proc. IEEE Symp. Secur. Privacy, San
Francisco, CA, USA, 2019, pp. 539–554.
Yongzhong He received the PhD degree in com-
puter science from the Institute of Software, Chinese
Academy of Sciences, in 2006. He is a full professor
with the School of Computer, Beijing Jiaotong Uni-
versity, China. He did research with Oakland Univer-
sity, in 2009, and the Pennsylvania State University
during 2014-2015 as a visiting scholar. His research
interests include system security, privacy protection,
and mobile security.
Yiming Wang received the M.S. degree in cy-
berspace security from Beijing Jiaotong Univer-
sity, in 2022. His research interest includes system
security.
Sencun Zhu received the PhD degree in information
technology from George Mason University, in 2004.
He is an associate professor with Penn State Univer-
sity. His research interests include privacy, wireless
and mobile security, smartphone security, anomaly
detection, IoT security, and ML/DL related security.
Wei Wang received the PhD degree in control science
and engineering from Xi’an Jiaotong University, in
2006. He is currently a full professor with the School
of Computer, Beijing Jiaotong University, China. His
main research interests include mobile, computer, and
network security.
YunjiaZhangreceivedtheM.S.degreeincyberspace
security from Beijing Jiaotong University, in 2021.
Her research interest includes system security.
Qiang Li received the PhD degree in computer sci-
ence from the University of Chinese Academy of
Sciences, in 2015. Currently, he is an associate pro-
fessor with the School of Computer and Information
Technology, Beijing Jiaotong University, China. His
research interests include revolve around Internet of
Things, software security, artiﬁcial intelligence, and
machine learning for cybersecurity
Aimin Yu is a research scientist with the Institute of
Information Engineering, Chinese Academy of Sci-
ences. His research interests include system security
and trust computing.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 15,2026 at 04:05:42 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
