tween the disclosed vulnerable functions and the vulnerable
functions that existed in ReactOS, indicated a similarity of
less than 60% in the six cases. Moreover, because VUDDY
is not designed to detect vulnerabilities that exist outside func-
tions, it missed two vulnerabilities.
Finally, VUDDY produced eight false positives, all of
which were caused by abstraction. In the case of a security
patch that changes only its abstraction targets, VUDDY can-
not distinguish between vulnerable and patched functions,
thereby producing false positives.
V1SCAN. V1SCAN discovered 26 vulnerabilities in ReactOS
while eliminating most false positives and negatives produced
by the existing approaches. It is noteworthy that V1SCAN
detected more vulnerabilities with significantly fewer false
positives than the union results of existing approaches.
Here we introduce the LibTIFF v4.0.10 case, which is
reused in ReactOS. V1SCAN could filter out vulnerabilities
of LibTIFF that were not reused in ReactOS (e.g., CVE-2020-
35521). In addition, V1SCAN detected the CVE-2018-19210
vulnerability that was not discovered in the version-based
approach, because the CPE provides an incorrect version
(v4.0.9). Moreover, the CVE-2019-14973 vulnerability, in
which the security patch modified outside functions, was
not detected by the code-based approach but discovered in
V1SCAN. Note that the aforementioned vulnerabilities have
been patched in the latest version of ReactOS.
3
Design of V1SCAN
In this section, we describe the design of V1SCAN, which can
precisely detect propagated 1-day vulnerabilities.
3.1
Overview
V1SCAN synergistically combines version- and code-based
approaches to take advantage of their strengths and avoid
their weaknesses. The key idea of V1SCAN, which is sig-
nificantly distinguishable from existing version- and code-
based approaches is that it classifies reused and vulnerable
codes. Such code classification techniques allow V1SCAN to
eliminate false positives of version-based approaches while
addressing false negatives of code-based approaches.
Figure 2 depicts the workflow of V1SCAN, which com-
prises three phases: classification (P1), detection
(P2), and consolidation phase (P3). In P1, V1SCAN clas-
sifies the reused codes of OSS components and the vulnerable
code locations in the target program based on code classi-
fication (see Section 2.2). In P2, V1SCAN detects vulnera-
bilities contained in the target program by using improved
version- and code-based approaches with code classification
techniques. Finally, in P3, V1SCAN examines the two detec-
tion results and consolidates them to confirm the propagated
vulnerabilities included in the target program.
Target 
program
INPUT
OUTPUT
1-day
vulnerabilities
P1. Classification
P2.Detection
P3. Consolidation
Improved version-based approach
Improved code-based approach
Reused code
classification
Vulnerable code 
classification
Vulnerability
detection
Filtering
false alarms
Vulnerability
detection
Figure 2: High-level overview of V1SCAN.
Design assumption and text preprocessing. We designed
V1SCAN to detect vulnerabilities at the source code level. Al-
though V1SCAN can operate with any granularity unit, we fo-
cus on the function units in the version-based approach, which
are suitable for identifying reused OSS components [36].
Subsequently, V1SCAN extracts (1) all functions from ev-
ery version of the OSS in our dataset (see Section 4.2), and
(2) all functions of the target program, using a function parser
(see Section 4.1). V1SCAN then performs text preprocessing
on all extracted functions to normalize the code; it removes
comments, linefeed, and whitespace from the function codes.
Moreover, V1SCAN uses locality sensitive hashing (LSH),
which hashes similar input items into the same “buckets” with
high probability [33]; therefore, LSH can be utilized to ad-
dress code modifications in a flexible manner.
We applied LSH to all text-preprocessed functions in (1)
the target program and (2) every version of OSS projects.
Each LSH algorithm provides a functionality (Φ) to measure
the distance between two inputs and the cutoff value (i.e.,
threshold θ). Thus, the relationships in which the two func-
tions (f1, f2) are identical, similar, or different can be defined
as follows: let the output of Φ be an integer.
• Identical: If Φ( f1, f2) = 0, f1 and f2 are identical.
• Similar: If 0 < Φ(f1, f2) ≤θ, f1 and f2 are similar.
• Different: If Φ(f1, f2) > θ, f1 and f2 are different.
3.2
Classification phase (P1)
In this phase, V1SCAN classifies reused OSS functions and
extracts code lines, which belong to the locations defined in
the vulnerable code classification, from the target program.
3.2.1
Improved version-based approach
Component identification. The first step involved uncover-
ing the OSS components in the target program, which, how-
ever, is difficult to precisely accomplish [9,36]. Because the
identification of components is beyond the scope of this paper,
we decided to use an existing, well-implemented component
identification tool. We took advantage of CENTRIS [36] be-
cause it can precisely identify OSS components that have been
modified and its source code and dataset are publicly available.
Using CENTRIS, we extracted the names of OSS components
included in the target program. Note that CENTRIS is only
concerned with component identification, and does not di-
rectly participate in vulnerability detection.
