3.4
Consolidation phase (P3)
By consolidating the vulnerability detection results of the
improved version- and code-based approaches, V1SCAN de-
termines vulnerabilities that exist in the target program.
As explained in P1 and P2, V1SCAN reduces false posi-
tives and negatives in the version- and code-based approach.
The false alarms produced by the version-based approach
were removed through the reuse code classification-based
filtering, and the false alarms of the code-based approach
were prevented by using both the hash and line comparisons.
Moreover, V1SCAN covers the false negatives of version- and
code-based approaches by combining their results. Vulnera-
bilities included in less frequently identified versions (i.e., not
a prevalent version) can be covered by detecting them with
the code-based approach of V1SCAN. In addition, by leverag-
ing vulnerable code classification and focusing only on core
vulnerable code lines, V1SCAN can address false negatives
of existing code-based approaches. Therefore, we denote the
union of the detection results of both approaches as the list of
vulnerabilities contained in the target programs.
4
Implementation of V1SCAN
This section introduces the implementation of V1SCAN, in-
cluding its architecture and the datasets.
4.1
Architecture
V1SCAN comprises the two modules: a dataset collector and
a vulnerability detector. The dataset collector constructs the
OSS and CVE datasets (see Section 4.2 and Section 4.3).
The vulnerability detector performs vulnerability discovery
on the target program, which is implemented in approximately
1,800 lines of Python code excluding external libraries. We
use CENTRIS [36] to identify the OSS components in the
target program. For the parser and LSH algorithm, we utilize
Ctags [5] and TLSH [23,30]. Ctags is a regular expression-
based parser, and has the advantage of scalability and detec-
tion accuracy; it can be used to precisely parse C/C++ source
files without being affected by the code size of the target pro-
gram. In addition, because Ctags provides the functionality
to identify functions, structures, macros, and variables from
source files, it can be effectively used to classify vulnerable
locations. Next, we selected the TLSH [23,30] as the LSH
algorithm, which is both accurate and scalable. We used the
similarity measurement function provided by TLSH as it is,
and selected the cutoff value of 30 (see Section 3.1), which
was observed to be the most efficient in their paper [23].
4.2
OSS dataset
The OSS dataset is utilized for identifying OSS components
in the target program. We leveraged the OSS dataset provided
by CENTRIS [36], which consists of all versions of the 10,241
popular C/C++ OSS projects on GitHub.
Table 3: CVE dataset overview.
Category
Count (#)
• Security patches
4,612
- Vulnerable and patched function pairs
7,675
- Vulnerable and patched structure pairs
106
- Vulnerable and patched macro pairs
221
- Vulnerable and patched variable pairs
598
• CPE database
- Contained CVEs
137,892
- Collected vulnerable software
75,489
- Collected vulnerable versions
559,305
Since the dataset of CENTRIS was constructed in April
2020, we additionally collected versions generated after that
of each repository (as of April 2022). As a result, the number
of versions increased from 229,326 to 246,512 in V1SCAN.
4.3
CVE dataset
For each CVE, V1SCAN first collects the security patch, and
then extracts necessary information (e.g., vulnerable func-
tions) from the patch. V1SCAN then constructs the CPE
database, which is used in the improved version-based ap-
proach. Table 3 summarizes the CVE dataset.
Collecting security patches. We collected security patches
of CVE vulnerabilities by leveraging existing approaches [11,
16, 35, 37]. We examined CVEs in the NVD and checked
whether a “Git commit” URL was included in the references;
this URL provides the code-level security patches. Hence, we
can obtain the security patch commits for CVE vulnerabilities
by crawling the URLs. As a result, we collected 4,612 C/C++
security patches from the NVD (as of August 2022).
Identifying vulnerable locations. Because V1SCAN uses
vulnerable code classification, it is necessary to identify the
location to which the code modified by the security patch
belongs. Each security patch provides (1) a Git index and (2)
code line numbers that include vulnerable and patched code.
We access the index to obtain the vulnerable and patched
source files (e.g., using the “git show” command). We then
parse the source files using Ctags [5]. Using this output, we
can obtain the start and end line numbers of each function,
structure, macro, and variable. Finally, we identify the loca-
tions that contain the modified code lines in the patch. If
the modified code lines belong to a function or structure, the
entire code of the vulnerable and patched function (and struc-
ture) is extracted. If the modified code lines belong to a macro
or variable, the exact lines of code are extracted.
As a result, we collected 7,675 vulnerable and patched
function pairs, 106 structure pairs, 221 macro pairs, and 598
variable pairs. Over 97% of the code repaired by the patch was
included in one of the four locations. The remaining 3% were
code patches that very rarely appear, such as changing header
file names. This confirms that considering these four locations
for vulnerability detection is sufficiently comprehensive.
