Prevalent version identification. We then need to identify
the version of each reused component. However, precise iden-
tification of the version to which reused modified OSS com-
ponents belong is challenging (see Section 2.3). Therefore,
V1SCAN is designed such that it is not critically affected by
the correctness of the identified versions.
Our approach is to first roughly detect vulnerabilities and
then refine the results. In particular, we define the prevalent
version of the OSS component as the version to which the
functions contained in the reused OSS codebase most closely
correspond. To identify the prevalent version, V1SCAN first
compares all functions in the target program with those in
every version of the OSS component. V1SCAN extracts the
OSS functions that are exactly included in the target program,
and then verifies the versions to which each extracted function
belongs. The most frequently identified version is designated
the prevalent version of the OSS component.
Reused code classification. Next, V1SCAN classifies func-
tions reused in OSS components based on the reused code
classification defined in Section 2.2. Because we consider
the function unit in the version-based approach, V1SCAN
classifies reused OSS functions based on code modifications.
When an OSS is reused in the target program, the functions
in the original OSS can be in one of three states: (1) exactly
reused, (2) changed, or (3) unused. Subsequently, V1SCAN
examines the state of all the functions included in the preva-
lent version of the OSS component. We consider the function
relationships defined in Section 3.1.
• Exactly reused functions. If a function in the prevalent
version is identical to a certain function in the target
program, it is considered reused in the target program.
• Changed functions. If a function f ′ that exists in the
target program is similar to function f in the prevalent
version, f is considered a changed function.
• Unused functions. Among all functions in the prevalent
version, those that did not belong to the exactly reused
or changed were included in the unused group.
The changed functions were further classified according
to the version to which they belonged. To this end, V1SCAN
compares f ′ with all functions in every version of the OSS.
If f ′ belongs to any other version of the OSS and is not the
prevalent version, f ′ is stored in the group under the name of
the associated version. In contrast, if f ′ does not belong to
any version of the OSS, it is stored in the “none” group. OSS
functions that do not belong to the prevalent version but are
contained in the target program, as detected in the prevalent
version identification, are also included in the changed group
with their respective version names.
Figure 3 depicts the procedure to classify reused code com-
pared with OSS identification in existing version-based ap-
proaches. V1SCAN stores the hash value of each function
obtained by applying the LSH algorithm (see Section 3.1).
OSS name, 
version
Target program
OSS
OSS name = {
exactly reused : [ f1 ,  f2 ,  … ],
changed
: {
version i
: [ f3′,  … ], …
none 
: [ f5′,  … ]},
unused
: [ f6 ,  … ]
}
(a) OSS identification in existing
version-based approaches
(b) Reused code classification in V1SCAN
Target program
OSS
fi: a function in the prevalent version
f ′
i : a function in the target program similar to fi.
Figure 3: Illustration of the differences between reused code
classification and OSS identification in existing approaches.
3.2.2
Improved code-based approach
Vulnerable code classification. To increase the vulnerability
detection scope, V1SCAN classifies the code locations where
vulnerabilities exist, and then takes an effective vulnerability
detection approach for each location. We considered the fol-
lowing four code locations (see Section 2.2): 1 function, 2
structure, 3 macro, and 4 (global and class) variable.
Code extraction. Subsequently, V1SCAN extracts the code
lines belonging to the location in the target program. In fact,
extracting functions, structures, macros, and variables from
the target program can easily be performed using an exist-
ing C/C++ parser (e.g., [5]). For more accurate vulnerability
detection, V1SCAN further classifies the four locations into
two groups based on the syntactic similarity: (functions and
structures) and (macros and variables). Functions and struc-
tures have in common that multiple code lines are enclosed in
curly braces, while macros and variables generally consist of
only one or two code lines. V1SCAN extracts (1) LSH hash
values (see Section 3.1) and (2) source code lines from all
functions and structures in every C/C++ source file in the tar-
get program. We consider both hash values and lines of code
to reduce false positives in vulnerability discovery (details
are introduced in Section 3.3.2). For macros and variables,
V1SCAN extracts only the corresponding source code lines.
3.3
Detection phase (P2)
V1SCAN detects propagated vulnerabilities in the target pro-
gram, using improved version- and code-based approaches.
3.3.1
Improved version-based approach
Vulnerability detection. V1SCAN detects vulnerabilities in
the target program by using the prevalent version. We used
CPE [21] to construct a CPE database that maps the CVEs
to the affected OSS versions (see Section 4.3). By leveraging
the CPE database, V1SCAN identifies the CVE vulnerabilities
included in the prevalent version of the OSS component. For
example, the CPE of the Heartbleed vulnerability (CVE-2014-
0160) specifies that the vulnerability exists in OpenSSL 1.0.1
to 1.0.1f. If OpenSSL is reused in the target program and
its prevalent version is between 1.0.1 and 1.0.1f, V1SCAN
determines that this vulnerability exists in the target program.
