V1SCAN: Discovering 1-day Vulnerabilities in Reused C/C++ Open-source
Software Components Using Code Classification Techniques
Seunghoon Woo, Eunjin Choi, Heejo Lee∗, Hakjoo Oh
Korea University, {seunghoonwoo, silver_jin, heejo, hakjoo_oh}@korea.ac.kr
Abstract
We present V1SCAN, an effective approach for discovering
1-day vulnerabilities in reused C/C++ open-source software
(OSS) components. Reusing third-party OSS has many bene-
fits, but can put the entire software at risk owing to the vul-
nerabilities they propagate. In mitigation, several techniques
for detecting propagated vulnerabilities, which can be clas-
sified into version- and code-based approaches, have been
proposed. However, state-of-the-art techniques unfortunately
produce many false positives or negatives when OSS projects
are reused with code modifications.
In this paper, we show that these limitations can be ad-
dressed by improving version- and code-based approaches
and synergistically combining them. By classifying reused
code from OSS components, V1SCAN only considers vulner-
abilities contained in the target program and filters out unused
vulnerable code, thereby reducing false alarms produced by
version-based approaches. V1SCAN improves the coverage
of code-based approaches by classifying vulnerable code and
then detecting vulnerabilities propagated with code changes in
various code locations. Evaluation on GitHub popular C/C++
software showed that V1SCAN outperformed state-of-the-art
vulnerability detection approaches by discovering 50% more
vulnerabilities than they detected. In addition, V1SCAN re-
duced the false positive rate of the simple integration of ex-
isting version- and code-based approaches from 71% to 4%
and the false negative rate from 33% to 7%. With V1SCAN,
developers can detect propagated vulnerabilities with high
accuracy, maintaining a secure software supply chain.
1
Introduction
Open-source software (OSS) reuse has become an indispens-
able trend in software development [9,36,41]. In addition to
the benefits of using existing functionalities, reusing OSS in-
creases the reliability of software because OSS is often more
exposed to verification by multiple parties.
* Heejo Lee is the corresponding author.
However, improper OSS reuse may compromise the secu-
rity of the entire system (e.g., vulnerability propagation [9,
14, 15, 34]). To obviate the threats imposed by unmanaged
OSS reuse, many approaches have been proposed for detect-
ing vulnerabilities in OSS components. These approaches are
mainly classified into version- and code-based techniques.
• A version-based approach discovers vulnerabilities by
identifying OSS versions [9, 36, 40]. It determines
whether the versions contain known vulnerabilities such
as Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE).
• A code-based approach detects propagated vulnerabili-
ties by identifying codes that are syntactically or seman-
tically similar to vulnerable code [12,14,34,37].
Although resolving vulnerabilities is crucial for securing
software, existing version- and code-based approaches easily
produce false positives or negatives, resulting in impeding an
effective vulnerability management process. This is primarily
owing to the recent tendency of developers to typically reuse
OSS with code or structural modifications [9,36].
Limitations of existing approaches. Existing version-based
approaches (e.g., [9,36,40]) easily produce false positives be-
cause they fail to consider the impact of modified OSS reuse
on vulnerability propagation, and thus misinterpret the unused
vulnerable code as still being present in the target program. In
contrast, existing code-based approaches (e.g., [12,14,34,37])
easily report false negatives when the syntax of the vulner-
able code is modified. Moreover, because these approaches
focus on a specific granularity (e.g., function units), they miss
vulnerabilities that exist outside the selected granularity.
Our approach. To overcome their shortcomings, we present
V1SCAN, a novel approach for the precise and comprehensive
discovery of 1-day security vulnerabilities propagated as a
result of the reuse of C/C++ OSS components.
We devise a new way to combine version- and code-based
approaches to take full advantage of their strengths and avoid
weaknesses. The main idea of V1SCAN, which is significantly
distinguishable from existing approaches, is to detect propa-
gated vulnerabilities using the code classification techniques.
