Vulnerable source file
Function
(F)
Target program
OSS codebase
Reused
Exact (E)
Unused (U)
Changed (C)
(a) Reused code classification
(b) Vulnerable code classification
Structure
(S)
Variable 
(V)
Macro 
(M)
Figure 1: Depiction of the code classification.
2.3
Problem statement
In this paper, we focus on the problem in which existing
version- and code-based approaches fail to precisely detect
1-day vulnerabilities in target software, leaving threats un-
mitigated and making the vulnerability management process
ineffective. Two main issues with the existing version- and
code-based approaches are summarized as follows.
• Version-based approaches produce many false positives
because they do not consider the modification of reused
vulnerable code.
• Code-based approaches report many false negatives be-
cause they do not consider code locations in which vul-
nerabilities exist.
First, although 57% of the C/C++ OSS codebase is changed
or excluded from OSS reuse in practice [36], existing version-
based approaches (e.g., [9,36,40]) fail to consider the impact
of modified reuse on vulnerability propagation. Even if the
vulnerable code is excluded during OSS reuse, or is repaired
by backporting the security patch, existing version-based ap-
proaches fail to filter out this and produce false alarms.
Moreover, version-based approaches can produce false re-
sults when component versions are misidentified. Because
OSS codes often undergo modifications during the reuse pro-
cess, it is challenging to map one version to the entire code-
base of the reused component (e.g., code from multiple OSS
versions can be mixed) [36]. Leveraging a Software Bill of
Materials (SBoM) [29] also presents challenges, as the cur-
rent SBoM for C/C++ mostly lacks consideration for modified
reuse; it maps a single version to an OSS component and can
thus produce false results in vulnerability discovery.
On the other hand, existing code-based approaches (e.g.,
[12, 14, 34, 37]) report many false negatives because they
mainly focus on detecting propagated vulnerabilities within a
specific granularity (e.g., function units). Furthermore, they
do not precisely identify propagated vulnerable code with
various syntaxes (e.g., propagated with code changes).
2.4
Motivating example
We attempted to discover 1-day vulnerabilities in ReactOS
v0.4.13, which is a free Windows-compatible operating sys-
tem. We used V1SCAN, version-based, and code-based ap-
proaches and then examined each vulnerability detection re-
sult. Table 1 summarizes the vulnerability detection results.
Table 1: Vulnerability detection results for ReactOS using the
V1SCAN, version-based, and code-based approaches. We mea-
sured FNs by considering all TPs discovered in the three ap-
proaches as the ground truth.
Approach
#TP∗#FP† #FN‡ Precision R§
Version-based approach (V)
5
47
22
10%
19%
Version-based approach
(manually correcting versions)
20
29
7
41%
74%
Code-based approach (C)
13
8
14
62%
48%
Union of the version- and
code-base approaches (V ∪C)
15
55
12
21%
56%
V1SCAN
26
1
1
96%
96%
#TP∗: #True positives, #FP†: #False positives, #FN‡: #False negatives,
R§: TP detection rate (#TP / (#TP + #FN)).
Version-based approach. We used CENTRIS [36], a recent
approach for precisely identifying modified OSS components.
CENTRIS identified 23 C/C++ OSS components and versions
thereof in ReactOS. Subsequently, we investigated the CVE
vulnerabilities contained in the components using the CPE
of NVD [21], which specifies the software affected by each
CVE (details are introduced in Section 3.3).
Consequently, 10 components, including LibTIFF and
MbedTLS, were identified as vulnerable, with 52 CVE vul-
nerabilities. However, when we manually examined these 52
CVEs, we observed that the version-based approach produced
many false positives: 47 CVEs (90%) were false positives,
whereas only five CVEs were identified correctly. Most false
positives were the result of incorrect predictions of the com-
ponent version (see Section 2.3).
Despite our attempt to rectify the problem by manually cor-
recting the component versions, the version-based approach
still produced 29 false positives. This is because the version-
based approach misinterprets that the target program still
contains unused vulnerable code or vulnerable code repaired
by backporting security patches. For example, the ReactOS
team resolved three CVE vulnerabilities contained in Libtirpc
v0.1.11 by backporting the security patches, instead of up-
dating the entire Libtirpc to a safe version. However, the
version-based approach failed to filter out the resolved vul-
nerabilities, misconfirming that the three CVEs were still
included in ReactOS (i.e., producing false positives).
Code-based approach. We used VUDDY [14], a function-
based vulnerable code detection approach that was specifi-
cally developed for the discovery of 1-day vulnerabilities. We
tested VUDDY using 4,612 CVE patches (see Section 4.3)
in abstraction mode, which makes VUDDY robust to changes
in parameters, local variables, and called function names.
When we applied VUDDY to ReactOS, we confirmed that
VUDDY reported many false negatives, which we attributed
to the syntax diversity of the vulnerable code. VUDDY could
discover only 13 (48%) of 27 vulnerabilities and failed to de-
tect 14 vulnerable functions. Our measurement of the Jaccard
similarity [32] (considering a function as a set of lines) be-
