quired. We reported two vulnerabilities to the LibGDX team
in March 2022. They confirmed our report and immediately
applied the security patches to their codebase.
V1SCAN also detected vulnerabilities in other software,
including OpenMVG, FreeBSD, and Disque. We reported
the vulnerabilities to the respective development teams; the
FreeBSD team responded that they would fix the vulnerability
in the subsequent versions. Patch requests are currently pend-
ing for the four cases, despite our multiple reports. Nonethe-
less, we observed that V1SCAN could be effectively used for
vulnerability detection in real-world software programs.
Limitations. V1SCAN makes several assumptions that limit
its application.
First, V1SCAN can be applied only when the source code
of the target program is available.
Second, although V1SCAN outperformed the existing ap-
proaches, it may fail to detect several vulnerabilities. A typical
example other than those introduced in Section 5.1 is the vul-
nerability in which CPE is incorrectly provided and, at the
same time, reused with significant code changes. To address
this problem, we can devise a CPE verification technique
(e.g., [6,8,35]) or apply a more relaxed code-based approach.
However, the former is beyond the scope of this paper, and par-
ticular caution is needed, as the latter may produce more FPs.
Additionally, while V1SCAN can handle the syntax diversity
of vulnerable codes, it may not detect propagated vulnerable
functions that do not contain the code lines deleted in the
patch. This is a result of our decision to avoid potential FPs
(Section 5.1), but it may result in the reporting of several FNs.
Third, V1SCAN may not be able to filter code vulnerabil-
ities resolved by security patches applied by the developers
themselves. To solve this problem, we are considering apply-
ing semantic analysis to vulnerable and patched codes.
Finally, the accuracy of V1SCAN can be affected by the
performance of external tools. For example, CENTRIS can
incorrectly identify components, causing V1SCAN to produce
FPs. In addition, FPs and FNs may be generated owing to the
selected function parser and LSH algorithm (see Section 5.1).
If this becomes an issue, V1SCAN can be plugged into other
tools to enhance the vulnerability discovery accuracy.
7
Related work
Software composition analysis. Several approaches have
attempted to detect third-party OSS components reused in
target programs (e.g., [2, 9, 17, 20, 28, 36, 40, 41]); some of
these can be used to detect vulnerabilities. Woo et al. [36] pre-
sented CENTRIS to identify the modified OSS components in
a target program. It significantly reduces false alarms in com-
ponent identification by considering only the unique parts of
the OSS through code segmentation. Duan et al. [9] proposed
OSSPolice to identify 1-day vulnerabilities from the third-
party libraries of an Android application. It utilizes constant
features to extract library versions, and determines whether
vulnerable versions were used in the target application. Zhan
et al. [40] proposed ATVHunter to precisely detect versions of
third-party libraries using the control flow graph of the appli-
cation. Based on the identified versions, they verified whether
the target application contained known vulnerabilities.
However, their goal was to precisely identify the compo-
nents, and they did not fully consider OSS modifications for
vulnerability detection. Therefore, they may produce many
false alarms in our problem situations (see Section 5.1).
Vulnerable code detection. Several approaches have at-
tempted to discover vulnerable code in target programs (e.g.,
[3, 12, 14, 34, 37]). Jang et al. [12] proposed ReDeBug, a
token-level vulnerable code clone detection approach that
uses a sliding window technique. Kim et al. [14] presented
VUDDY, a function-level vulnerable code clone detection ap-
proach that can scalably detect 1-day vulnerabilities. Bowman
et al. [3] proposed VGRAPH, a code property graph based
vulnerable code detection approach that is robust to code
modification. Xiao et al. [37] presented MVP, a recurring
vulnerability detection approach, which can discover vulner-
able code that recurs with different syntax. Woo et al. [34]
proposed MOVERY, an approach that can precisely detect
modified vulnerable code clones.
Although their goals are similar to ours, they did not con-
sider vulnerable code whose code has changed significantly
owing to the modified OSS reuse, which led to the production
of false negatives when applied to our target problem. Also,
they cannot counteract vulnerabilities that exist outside of the
selected granularity (see Section 5.1 and Section 6). Other
approaches have attempted to detect vulnerabilities based on
learning algorithms (e.g., [18,19]). These approaches can be
applied to discover general vulnerable code; however, they
are not applicable for detecting 1-day vulnerabilities.
Code clone detection. Many approaches attempted to detect
code clones (e.g., [4,13,24–27,31]). However, as verified in
the previous studies (e.g., [14,37]), they generate numerous
false alarms when applied to detect vulnerable code. Hence,
they cannot be directly applied to solving our target issue.
8
Conclusion
Detecting known security vulnerabilities in third-party OSS
components is the first step toward achieving secure software.
In this regard, we presented V1SCAN, which is a precise ap-
proach for detecting 1-day vulnerabilities from modified OSS
components in a target program. V1SCAN significantly out-
performed existing approaches in terms of 1-day vulnerability
discovery accuracy by consolidating version- and code-based
approaches, along with the reused code classification and
vulnerable code classification techniques. Equipped with the
vulnerability detection results of V1SCAN, developers can
mitigate the potential risks imposed by modified third-party
OSS reuse, rendering a safer software ecosystem.
