3048 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SOFTW ARE ENGINEERING, VOL. 50, NO. 11, NOVEMBER 2024
Fig. 12. A failing example.
The outcome reveals that it takes approximately three hours
and fifty minutes to process all examples in DATASET-A,
equating to an average of 1.95 seconds per test case. Compared
to A-SZZ, our approach takes approximately three times longer.
This is attributed to the fact that our method involves analyzing
both the previous and current versions of the program, whereas
A-SZZ only needs to focus on the current version. Additionally,
our approach requires collecting states and comparing them
between two program versions. Despite the increased time over-
head, we believe our approach remains practical and applicable
in real-world scenarios.
RQ-3: SEM-SZZ takes approximately 1.95 seconds to han-
dle a fixing commit from scratch. This duration includes
tasks such as extracting the source files, collecting and
comparing states, and locating bug-inducing commits.
VI. D
ISCUSSION
A. Analysis for the Failure Case
In this section, we aim to analyze the reasons behind the
failures observed in some cases. We randomly select 100 cases
to analyze the reasons for the failures. After analysis, the failed
reasons can be summarized as follows:
Line similarity fails to determine whether a commit is
buggy. Out of the 100 cases analyzed, 28 cases fail because
S
EM-SZZ fails to determine whether a commit is buggy.
The main reason for this is the line similarity matching pro-
tocol used in our method. In our approach, for each statement
contributing to the bug, if there all exists a line with string
similarity beyond a threshold, we assume that the commit is
influenced by the buggy. However, this method sometimes fails
to accurately identify the bug-inducing commits. For instance,
consider the commit 15273ffd7ef [38], which adds a new
line ret = 0;. Our method generates two buggy statements:
if (!ret) and return ret;. However, when locating
the bug-inducing commit, the method encounters many state-
ments like if (ret), which exhibit high line similarity but
have completely different semantic meanings. This can lead to
incorrect judgments and result in finding false bug-inducing
commits. This issue is particularly prevalent when the buggy
statements contain many short statements.
Fig. 13. An example to show the effectiveness of program slicing.
Failing to point out buggy statements correctly. Another
main reason for the failure is that our method fails to point out
buggy statements correctly. This issue is responsible for most of
the remaining failing cases. F or instance, while the added line
may influence the variable’s data flow, analyzing the affected
variable’s data flow may not yield correct results.
Consider the commit 072b30642f9[39], illustrated in Fig.12.
This commit introduces a new code line at line 2, highlighted in
green, impacting the data flow of the variabledrv. Our method,
accordingly, compares its data flow with the previous version
and identifies lines 1 and 3 as buggy statements. However,
tracing back these unmodified lines does not lead us to the bug-
inducing commit, resulting in the failure of our method in this
scenario.
After carefully analyzing the bug-fixing commit and the bug-
inducing commit, we find that the bug occurs because the
bug-inducing commit attempts to introduce a new function
in the program but forgets to use it. Specifically, it creates
the iwl_load_fw_dbg_tlv function. However, the bug-
inducing commit only defines the function and forgets to use
it. Consequently, the bug-fixing commit fixes the bug by using
the iwl_load_fw_dbg_tlv function in line 2. Therefore,
we can conclude that the bug has nothing to do with the data
flow of the drvvariable. As a result, S
EM-SZZ fails to identify
the bug-inducing commit in this case.
B. Effectiveness of Program Slicing in Finding
Bug-Inducing Commits
Although tracing back the unmodified lines near the added
lines is an effective approach for finding bug-inducing com-
mits if we do not consider precisi on, there are still some bug-
inducing commits that cannot be found in this way. In this
section, we discuss whether program slicing, which explores N
basic blocks near the added lines, helps find more bug-inducing
commits that the baselines cannot detect.
In the experiment, we try to find bug-inducing commits that
S
EM-SZZ can detect but baselines can not. The experimental
result shows that S EM-SZZ does find bug-inducing commits
that the baselines cannot detect, accounting for 1.4% of the
total test cases. One typical example is the commit bfab7c8ff89
[40], shown in Fig. 13. In this case, the bug occurs because
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:26:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 