TANG et al.: ENHANCING BUG-INDUCING COMMIT IDENTIFICATI ON: A FINE-GRAINED SEMANTIC ANALYSIS APPROACH 3047
TABLE IV
THE PERFORMANCE COMPARISONS FOR FINDING
BUG-INDUCING COMMITS FROM BUG-FIXING
COMMITS WITH DELETED LINES
Approach Precision Recall F1-score
B-SZZ
AG-SZZ
MA-SZZ
R-SZZ
L-SZZ
0.42
0.48
0.48
0.58
0.56
0.71
0.65
0.65
0.55
0.52
0.53
0.55
0.55
0.56
0.54
SEM-SZZ 0.62 0.59 0.60
TABLE V
THE PERFORMANCE COMPARISONS IN
ABLATION STUDY
Similarity Precisio n Recall F1-score
SEM-SZZ-c
SEM-SZZ-d
SEM-SZZ-l
0.69
0.67
0.65
0.31
0.36
0.64
0.47
0.42
0.64
SEM-SZZ 0.68 0.66 0.67
similarly. The AG-SZZ, MA-SZZ, R-SZZ and L-SZZ algo-
rithms improve the precision compared to B-SZZ, but their F1-
scores are almost the same. Notably, the recall of B-SZZ is
relatively high. This implies that if there are deleted lines, it is
very likely that we can find the bug-inducing commits by tracing
back the deleted lines. This explains why we need to modify the
approach when dealing with bug-fixing commits with deleted
lines and why we need to pay more attention to deleted lines
when they exist.
Additionally, from the table, we can observe that S
EM-SZZ
also outperforms all baselines. It improves the precision by
7%, compared to the best baseline R-SZZ. Our method also
demonstrates a notable improvement in F1-score, surpassing the
best baseline by 7%.
RQ-3: SEM-SZZ outperforms all baselines in identifying
bug-inducing commits from bug-fixing commits with deleted
lines. It enhances precision by 7% and F1-score by 7%
compared to the best baseline.
C. Effectiveness of Key Designs in S
EM-SZZ
In this research question, we aim to evaluate the effectiveness
of the key components in our approach. SEM-SZZ incorporates
two primary designs for identifying buggy statements and one
for pinpointing bug-inducing commits.
The first design involves comparing path constraints between
the previous and current versions of the program. Here, the
previous version refers to the first commit preceding the bug-
fixing commit, while the current version refers to the bug-fixing
commit itself. The second design involves comparing the data
flow of each variable in both versions. In the third design, we
utilize line similarity comparisonto identify the earliest commit
Fig. 11. The impact of line similarity threshold.
that introduces the statements contributing to the bug, marking
it as the bug-inducing commit.
To do the ablation study, we first use DATASET -FA and
compare S EM-SZZ with three of its variants: S EM-SZZ-c,
SEM-SZZ-d, and SEM-SZZ-l, each missing one key component.
Then we change the line similarity threshold and evaluate its
impact on the SEM-SZZ’s performance. In SEM-SZZ-c, we only
compare the constraints and drop the comparison of data flow.
Similarly, S
EM-SZZ-d only focuses on comparing the data flow
and drops the comparison of constraints. Both variants would
cause fewer buggy statements to be identified. In S EM-SZZ-
l, we do not use the line similarity comparison to identify
bug-inducing commits, instead following V-SZZ’s approach by
selecting the earliest one.
From TableV, it’s evident that SEM-SZZ achieves the highest
F1-score compared to all of its variants. While S EM-SZZ-c
demonstrates the best precision among all methods, dropping
data flow comparison results in a significant decrease in re-
call. Similarly, dropping constraint comparison has a substantial
negative impact on recall performance. Both constraint and data
flow comparisons contribute almost equally to recall. Moreover,
our method of locating bug-inducing commits enhances the
method’s ability to point out bug-inducing commits, improving
all metrics. It improves precision by 5%, recall by 3%, and F1-
score by 5% compared to S
EM-SZZ-l. Fig. 11 shows that the
choice of line similarity threshold also influences the perfor-
mance. When the line similarity threshold rises from 0.65 to
0.75, the F1-score also increases. However, when the threshold
increases from 0.75 to 0.85, the F1-score drops. This shows that
0.75 is an appropriate value for the line similarity threshold.
RQ-2: Table V illustrates that each of our key designs
contributes to the performance in identifying bug-inducing
commits. Both constraint comparison and data flow com-
parison contribute equally to recall. Additionally, our
method of locating bug-inducing commits enhances the
performance across all metrics and 0.75 is the appropriate
value for the line similarity threshold.
D. Time Efficiency
In this section, our objective is to assess the time consumption
of our approach during program analysis. We compare the
performance of our S
EM-SZZ with the baseline A-SZZ, both
of which involve analyzing the program’s structure.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:26:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 