3044 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SOFTW ARE ENGINEERING, VOL. 50, NO. 11, NOVEMBER 2024
Fig. 8. An example of handling bug- fixing commits w ith deleted lines.
constraints and mark them as buggy statements. Similarly, when
comparing the data flow of each variable, if there’s a difference
between versions, we identify and mark the related deleted lines
as buggy statements.
Fig. 8 illustrates why comparing paths is necessary. If we
blamed all deleted lines, lines 3 and 17 would be included.
However, line 3 is simply replaced by line 4 and does not affect
the program’s state. By comparing paths, we can see that the
data flow of variables buffer and count is not affected,
allowing us to exclude line 3 and reduce noise.
IV . E
XPERIMENT SETUP
A. Experiment Setting
The experiment was conducted on a server equipped with
an Intel(R) Xeon(R) Gold 6226R CPU, running the Ubuntu
operating system. We utilized gitpython to extract source
files from both the previous and current versions of the program.
The control flow graph was constructed based on the AST
generated by the tr ee-sitter parser [31]. Following the V-SZZ
algorithm, we set the line similarity threshold as 0.75. Notably,
we set the maximum search step parameter N to three. Further
details on the impact of various maximum search steps will be
discussed in the subsequent section. Moreover, we implement
all baselines based on tools provided by Lenarduzzi et al. [32].
B. Data Preparation
To evaluate our method, we r equire a high-qua lity dataset.
While several researchers [33], [34] have introduced datasets
containing bug-inducing and bug-fixing commits, a common
challenge is the lack of annotations by project developers, po-
tentially leading to inaccuracies. Recently, some datasets [35],
Fig. 9. Datasets relationship.
Fig. 10. A bug-fixing commit involving no changes within functions.
[36] with developers’ annotations have been proposed, but all
of them have very limited examples of bug-fixing commits
with no deleted lines. For example, after filtering, the dataset
proposed by Rosa et al. [35] contains only about 20 bug-fixing
commits only with added lines. Considering these factors, we
opted to utilize the datas et proposed by Lyu et al. [20], which
is constructed based on the Linux kernel and contains 79,649
bug-fixing commits. There are several reasons for this choice.
Firstly, it is annotated by developers, ensuring its accuracy.
The developers leave the link to the bug-inducing commit in
the commit message of the bug-fixing commit. Secondly, it
contains a significant number of bug-fixing commits without
any deletion lines. To eval uate our method, we partition the
original dataset into multiple datasets, as illustrated in Fig. 9.
We initially pick out bug-fixing commits containing c files
with only added lines from the original dataset, yielding
11,426 commits, which we call DATASET
-A. Here, the suffix
“A” means added lines. To better demonstrate the effective-
ness of S EM-SZZ, we filter out two types of commits from
DATASET-A. The first type of commits does not involve
changes within functions. These commits often only involve
changes to header file includes, str uct definitions, or global
variable declarations. We have provided an example in Fig.10.
The commit fixes the bug only by adding a new header file.
The second type involves changes within functions, but even
by tracing all lines in th e changed functions, we still cannot
identify the bug-inducing commits. Our approach is not de-
signed for the first type, and no approaches, including base-
lines, can handle the second type. Thus, we filter out these two
types of commits from DATASET
-A and get DATASET -FA,
which contains 6,233 bug-fixing commits. Here, the suffix “FA”
stands for the filtered bug-fixing commits with only added lines.
Finally, to evaluate our method’s effectiveness in identifying
bug-inducing commits from bug-fixing commits with deleted
lines, we extract bug-fixing commits containing c files with
deleted lines and changes in functi ons, resulting in 48,736 test
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:26:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 