3050 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SOFTW ARE ENGINEERING, VOL. 50, NO. 11, NOVEMBER 2024
Fig. 15. A failing example of the BUGNNINGS approach.
the commit message, the bug occurs because the bug-inducing
commit introduces the dma variable but does not set the burst
size. In S EM-SZZ, the data flow of the lpss variable is com-
pared, which correctly locates line 4, highlighted in yellow.
Conversely, BUGNNINGS incorrectly locates the place where
lpssis defined, which is line 1.
In fact, BUGNNINGS often tends to locate line numbers far
from the added lines based on PDGs. As mentioned earlier,
most bug-inducing commits can be found by tracing back the
lines near the added lines. This is the one main reason for its
poor performance. Another reason is its analysis of control flow
dependence. For instance, a newly addedifstatement can have
the control flow dependent relationship with many lines in the
program, often including many irrelevant lines.
E. Threats to Validity
Internal Validity.Threats to internal validity refer to causality,
bias, and errors in the experiment. One potential threat is that we
do not compile the entire source code of the program. Instead,
we utilize the tree-sitter parser to implement fuzzy parsing[45],
allowing us to analyze only part of the program. However,
fuzzy parsing may not accurately reflect the behavior of the
program, especially when the program contains many macros.
This could potentially lead to errors when creating datasets
and undermine the effectiveness of S
EM-SZZ in comparison.
Our implementation of BUGNNINGS faces the same issue,
as we build program dependence graphs directly from abstract
syntax trees. Another threat is the analysis of failure cases in
the discussion. We only randomly selected a subset of failure
cases for analysis which could also result in bias.
External Validity. Threats to external validity refer to the
applicability of our approach to other scenarios. One potential
threat is that we only implemented and evaluated our approach
on the projects in the C programming language. This limitation
arises due to the lack of ghost commits in other programming
languages. This r aises concerns about the portability of our
approach to other programming languages. To enhance gen-
eralization, we evaluate our approach on a larger dataset than
those used in previous studies. Another threat is that, in our
dataset, each bug-fixing commit typically corresponds to only
one bug-inducing commit, which may not reflect real-world
scenarios. In the future, we plan to extend our approach to
more programming languages and collect additional datasets to
address these issues.
Construct Validity. Threats to construct validity refer to the
accuracy of the measures used to represent the concepts in
the study. Our approach might not perfectly encapsulate the
complexities of real-world software development. For example,
S
EM-SZZ cannot handle test cases without changed lines in
functions. Therefore, it is not applicable to the entire dataset.
To mitigate this threat, we power a baseline with S
EM-SZZ
and apply it on the whole dataset when evaluating S EM-SZZ’s
effectiveness.
Conclusion Validity. Threats to conclusion validity refers to
the accuracy of the conclusions drawn from the data. In our
study, we draw conclusions based on a dataset from the Linux
kernel, which may not fully represent other software develop-
ment scenarios. Although we have analyzed the dataset and
found that it includes both small and large commits, similar to
those found in other developm ent contexts, there may still be
limitations in generalizing our findings. To address this, we plan
to extend our approach to include other programming languages
and projects in the future.
VII. R
ELATED WORK
SZZ algorithm Evaluation. The SZZ algorithm and its vari-
ants have been the foundation in numerous software engineer-
ing studies, leading to extensive evaluations by researchers
[33], [34]. Initially, evaluations often involved manual an-
notation, where researchers like Davies et al. [33] manually
annotated 174 bugs across three repositories. However, manual
annotation is time-consuming and may not always yield accu-
rate results, as annotators may lack an in-depth understanding
of the projects. Recognizing these challenges, many researchers
have proposed developer-informed oracles as an alternative.
For instance, Wen et al. [36] collected bug-inducing commits
based on bug reports, while Rosa et al. [35] relied on commit
messages for identification. Despite these advancements, one
persistent issue has been the limited size of available datasets.
Most existing datasets are relatively small, capturing only a
fraction of the bug-inducing commits present in real-world
projects. To address this limitation, Lyu et al. [20] collect a
large dataset based on commit messages from the Linux kernel.
This dataset, being considerably larger in scale, provides a more
comprehensive view of bug-inducing commits in a real-world
context.
SZZ algorithm Application. The original SZZ algorithm and
its variants are widely used by researchers in various empirical
studies within software engineering. These algorithms have
been applied to investigate developer collaboration [46], code
reviews [47], [48], technical debt [49], software vulnerability
[17] and software quality [50]. For instance, Palomba et al.
[51] employed the SZZ algorithm to explore the correlation
between smelly code and code that introduces faults. Similarly,
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:26:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 