TANG et al.: ENHANCING BUG-INDUCING COMMIT IDENTIFICATI ON: A FINE-GRAINED SEMANTIC ANALYSIS APPROACH 3043
Fig. 7. Locating bug-inducing commits.
fect test” model proposed by Rodríguez-Pérez et al. [29].T h e
model consists of two parts. The first part involves determining
whether a commit is buggy. They assume there exists a “per-
fect test” to accomplish this. If a commit can pass the test,
it is considered correct; otherwise, it is deemed buggy. The
second part involves locating the bug-inducing commit. They
trace back from the bug-fixing commit until encountering the
earliest commit that fails the “perfect test,” marking it as the
bug-inducing commit. However, in practice, there is always no
applicable “perfect test” available. Therefore, they replace it
with manually designed tests based on bug reports.
Based on the model mentioned above, our method to locate
the bug-inducing commits also consists of two parts. To deter-
mine whether a commit is buggy, we replace the “perfect test”
with the buggy statements collected above. As we mentioned
above, each buggy statement is indispensable to the occurrence
of the bug. Thus, we consider the commit as buggy only when it
contains all buggy statements or it contains statements with the
same semantic meaning as all buggy statements. To determine
whether two statements have the same semantic meaning, we
leverage the methodology proposed by V-SZZ [17].I ft w o
statements have a line similarity beyond a threshold, we believe
that they have the same semantic meaning. Here, we also use the
same method to compute line similarity and set the similarity
t h r e s h o l dt o0 . 7 5a sV - S Z Z .
Suppose that we have two strings S
1 and S2. We first cal-
culate the sum of the length of S1 and S2 as in formula 1.
Then we calculate the line similarity shown in formula2, where
the levenshteinDistance function is used to calculate the
Levenshtein edit distance[30] of the two strings. Line similarity
ranges from 0 to 1. Higher values indicate a greater likelihood
that two code statements share the same semantic meaning.
L=len(S
1)+ len(S2) (1)
S =(L−levenshteinDistance(S1,S2))/L (2)
To locate the bug-inducing commits, we trace back all buggy
statements, generating a set of candidate commits. Subse-
quently, we scrutinize these candidates to identify the earliest
buggy commit and designate it as the bug-inducing commit,
which is the same as the model above.
Fig. 7 illustrates the process o f locating bug-inducing
commits. After obtaining statements contributing to the bug,
we first use the git blame tool on the statements and
obtain two candidates: commit 153bedbac2e and commit
feb4a51323b. Then we begin to check which commit
first introduces all buggy statements. We first check the
earliest commit 153bedbac2e and find that no statement
has a line similarity over 0.75 with the statement flags
= atomic_fetch_andnot(IRQ_WORK_PENDING, &
work-> flags). The most closely related statement is line
3, but its similarity is still under 0.75. Thus, 153bedbac2e
is not the bug-inducing commit. Then, we check commit
feb4a51323b and find that it contains all statements in
the buggy statements. Thus, we designate it as the final
bug-inducing commit, which is the same as the developers’
message in Fig. 1.
E. Extending S
EM-SZZ to Bug-Fixing Commits With
Deleted Lines
While our method is primarily designed for bug-fixing com-
mits with only added lines, the approach of comparing program
states and identifying buggy statements can also be applied to
commits with deleted lines. However, some adjustments are
necessary for this scenario, particularly with respect to deleted
lines.
First, during program slicing, we mark the basic block con-
taining deleted lines as the point of interest and search its nearest
N predecessors and successors. Second, when comparing pro-
gram states, we focus more on deleted lines. Specifically, if we
find differences in path constraints between the previous and
current versions, we identify the deleted lines related to those
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:26:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 