3040 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SOFTW ARE ENGINEERING, VOL. 50, NO. 11, NOVEMBER 2024
Fig. 2. Overview of S EM-SZZ.
Fig. 3. An example of program slice.
A. Program Slicing
In this section, we present the program slicing process. The
goal of this process is to pick out specific parts of the program
that are relevant to the bug.
Firstly, we extract the function from the fixed version con-
taining the added lines. Then, we adapt the approach similar
to the previous research [25] for an intraprocedural program
slicing. During the program slicing process, we initially identify
the point of interest, which in this case is the basic block
containing added lines. Subsequently, we conduct both forward
and backward program slicing centered around this point. In this
way, we can avoid the noise introduced by the irrelevant lines.
In detail, we initially construct the control flow graph [26]
for the function, splitting the function into a set of basic blocks.
Then we pick out the basic block containing the added line as
the point of interest. Finally, we use the depth-first-search algo-
rithm to search itsN nearest predecessors and successors. Here,
the parameter N is the maximum search step, indicating the
search scope of our program. When the search step reaches N,
we save all the basic blocks encountered during the searching
process and exclude all other parts of the program.
Here, our slice criterion is based on basic blocks with added
code statements instead of variables. We do this for two reasons.
Firstly, there may be many changed statements in a function,
resulting in many changed variables. Handling them one by one
is time-consuming. By dealing with changed basic blocks, we
can address many code statements and variables once at a time.
Secondly, slicing based on variables may introduce lines far
from the added lines, which can introduce noise. Instead, by
slicing only the basic blocks near the changed basic blocks, we
can avoid this issue.
Fig. 3 illustrates an example of program slicing, based on the
function depicted in the motivation example. As depicted in the
figure, the original function is divided into six basic blocks, with
line ranges also indicated. The added line number is 15. Thus,
the basic block d contains the added line and we designate it
as the interesting point. Here we set N to 3. We begin to search
its three nearest predecessors (in this case, blocks c, a and
begin). Subsequently, we explore its three nearest successors.
Note that each block is visited only once throughout the process.
Thus, we identify the end block as the only successor. As a
result, our slicing result contains basic blocks begin, a, c, d,
and end.
B. State Collection
Having isolated the part of the program relevant to the bug,
our next step is to collect the states of the program within
this portion. We borrow the concept program’s state from sym-
bolic execution [27], [28]. In symbolic execution, the execution
engine maintains the program’s states (σ,π) for each execu-
tion path, where σ represents a table that maps each variable
to its corresponding symbolic value α
i, and pi denotes the
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:26:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 