TANG et al.: ENHANCING BUG-INDUCING COMMIT IDENTIFICATI ON: A FINE-GRAINED SEMANTIC ANALYSIS APPROACH 3041
Fig. 4. Candidate selection.
Algorithm 1: obtaining the program’s state after exe-
cuting the path.
Input : path, the input path
Output: state, the program’s state for the execution
path.
1 for statement in path do
2 if statement.type in {while, if, switch, for} then
3 state.constraints.add(statement)
4 if statement.type in {expression} then
5 variables ←−extractVars(statement)
6 for variable in variables do
7 state.variable.dataflow.append(statement)
8 return state
path constraints, signifying all branch conditions taken to reach
each statement in the path. Given that our goal is to discern
the differences between the states of the two versions of the
program—the bug-fixed version and the buggy version, there
is no imperative need for the symbolic value of each variable.
Instead, we collect each variable’s data flow for simplicity.
As shown above, in order to collect the program’s state,
we first construct its execution paths. We start from the ba-
sic blocks without predecessors and then traverse recursively
through all their successors. When we reach basic blocks with
no successors, we mark all statements encountered in sequential
order as an execution path. For example, in the sliced program
illustrated in Fig.3, we start from thebeginblock and traverse
its successors, including blocks a, c, d, until we arrive at the
endblock, which has no further successors. During the process,
we add each statement encountered to the execution path.
Following path extraction, we proceed to generate the pro-
gram’s state for the execution path. Algorithm 1 outlines the
process. We iterate through the statements in the execution path.
If the statement type belongs to path constraints (line 2), we
include the statement in the path constraints. Otherwise, we
extract the variables from the statement and incorporate them
into the data flow of these variables (lines 4-7).
Fig. 5. A program state example.
Fig. 5 illustrates the program’s state for the previously col-
lected execution path in the motivation example. Upon encoun-
tering the statement at line 3, we extract the variablesworkand
tmp from the statement. Consequently, we add line number 3
to their data flow, as depicted in the figure. Additionally, upon
reaching line 6, we easily identify it as an if statement related
to path constraint. Since our path executes from block c to d,
and it does not satisfy the condition, we negate the condition
and store it in the path constraint, as shown in Fig. 5.
C. State Comparison
After collecting the states, our subsequent step involves com-
paring the states of the execution paths from the current version
with those from the previous version. This comparison enables
us to identify discrepancies in their states, ultimately helping us
determine the unmodified statements contributing to the bug.
For each execution path in the current version, our objective
is to discover how the added lines affect the path, making its
state different from the previous version. To enable the com-
parison, the first step involves identifying the corresponding
execution path in the previous version and obtaining its state.
Our goal is to find an execution path in the previous version
that most closely resembles the one in the current version. Thus,
we can capture the differences in their states more precisely.
To get such a corresponding path, we begin by mapping the
first and last basic blocks in the current execution path to their
counterparts in the previous version of the program. Subse-
quently, we traverse from the first block in the previous version,
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:26:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 