TANG et al.: ENHANCING BUG-INDUCING COMMIT IDENTIFICATI ON: A FINE-GRAINED SEMANTIC ANALYSIS APPROACH 3049
Fig. 14. The impact of parameter N.
the previous version of the program does not call the fwn-
ode_handle_putfunction before returning. If we trace back
the two nearest lines between the added line, we cannot find the
bug-inducing commit. However, by comparing the differences
in the data flow of the variable fwnode, we can locate lines 1
and 3. Tracing back from these lines allows us to successfully
identify the bug-inducing commit.
C. Impact of the Maximum Search Step
In this section, we aim to investigate the impact of the maxi-
mum search step parameter N. As mentioned earlier, given that
most bug-inducing commits can be identified by tracing back
nearby lines, we set the maximum search step parameter N
to three. This parameter dictates that for each added line, we
search three basic blocks above and below it.
In this section, we vary the parameter N from 1 to 5 to
assess the performance of S
EM-SZZ under different settings.
Our evaluation focuses on key aspects such as F1-score and time
efficiency. Here, to show the influence of the maximum search
step on time efficiency more clearly, we exclude the time of
extracting source files.
Fig. 14 presents the results of the experiment. It is evident
that varying the number of the maximum search step does
not significantly impact time efficiency. While there is a slight
increase in time cost as the number of maximum search steps
grows, the increase is not substantial. Similarly, varying the
number of the maximum search steps does not significantly
impact the F1-score. It increases from a maximum search step
of 1 to 3, then decreases from 4 to 5. The reason for growth
is pretty easy to understand. As the number of the maximum
search step grows, S
EM-SZZ can expand the search scope and
analyze more basic blocks. However, as mentioned earlier, most
bug-inducing commits can be identified by tracing back nearby
lines. Therefore, we can assume that if a basic block is far
from the added lines, it is unlikely to contain lines that can be
traced back to find bug-inducing commits. Consequently, if the
parameter N is set too large and the search scope is too broad,
there is a high probability of including irrelevant statements in
the identified buggy statements, even if these statements have
data flow or control flow relationships with the added lines.
Finally, the inclusion of irrelevant statements in the identified
buggy statements can adversely affect the bug-inducing commit
localization process, resulting in false results.
TABLE VI
THE PERFORMANCE COMPARISONS BETWEEN SEM-SZZ
AND BUGNNINGS
Approach Precision Recall F1-score
BUGNNINGS
BUGNNINGS*
0.51
0.51
0.35
0.50
0.41
0.50
SEM-SZZ 0.68 0.66 0.67
A typical example is commit 5574d329044 [41]. When the
parameter N is set to 3, S EM-SZZ successfully identifies the
correct bug-inducing commit. However, when the parameter N
is increased to 5, SEM-SZZ fails to find the correct bug-inducing
commit. This failure occurs because, with N set to 5, the search
scope becomes too large and includes the statement struct
device *dev = &priv->udev->dev; as one of the
statements contributing to the bug. This statement, located over
100 lines away from the added line, is unrelated to the bug,
despite its data flow relation with the added line.
D. Comparison With Another Semantic-Based Approach
In this section, we compare SEM-SZZ with another semantic-
based approach called BUGNNINGS [42]. This method first
builds program dependence graphs for both the bug-fixing ver-
sion and the version preceding the bug-fixing commit. It then
computes the differences between these two versions of the pro-
gram dependence graph. This helps identify the code statements
that have a dependent relationship with the code changes in the
bug-fixing commit. Finally, the method traverses the commit
history to identify the earliest version that introduced all code
statements with a dependence relationship to the changes in the
bug-fixing commit.
The original implementation of BUGNNINGS is based on
W ALA, a Java program analysis infrastructure, and requires
compiling the program. However, compiling and analyzing a
large program, such as the Linux kernel, takes a very long time.
Considering that our dataset contains tens of thousands of bug-
fixing commits, strictly following the implementation in the
paper would result in unacceptable time consumption.
To address this, we utilize a tool called Joern[43], which can
build the program dependence graph (PDG) from the abstract
syntax tree (AST). We first extract the file content of the two
program versions and use Joern to build the PDG based on this
content. Then, we compare the PDGs of the two versions to
identify code statements that have a dependence relationship
with the changes in the bug-fixing commit.
The experimental result is shown in Table VI. The original
result can be seen in the second row of the table. However,
during implementation, we found that Joern failed to generate
PDGs for some test cases. Therefore, we filtered out these test
cases and obtained the result labeled BUGNNINGS*. Accord-
ing to the table, S
EM-SZZ outperforms BUGNNINGS in both
precision and recall.
The fundamental reason for this is that comparing the dif-
ferences in PDGs is not suitable in this scenario. For example,
consider the commit 7090abd6ad0[44] in Fig. 15. According to
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:26:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 