3038 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SOFTW ARE ENGINEERING, VOL. 50, NO. 11, NOVEMBER 2024
are solely comprised of added lines, indicating that these kinds
of commits are more prevalent than previous findings.
Despite the prevalence of such commits and their negative
impact on SZZ algorithms, few methods have been proposed to
mitigate this issue, let alone evaluating them with a developer-
informed oracle. To the best of our knowledge, the A-SZZ
algorithm, proposed by Sahal et al. [21], is the main method
intended to address this challenge. This algorithm operates by
first identifying added lines, then locating the block encompass-
ing these additions, and finally tracing back all lines within
the block. However, our experimental results reveal that this
algorithm suffers from significantly low precision, rendering
it impractical for real-world use. Researchers [19] have pro-
posed enhancements to the A-SZZ algorithm. However, these
improvements are constrained to specific scenarios, such as
method override, logging operations, and class expansions, lim-
iting their applicability. Furthermore, they have not been eval-
uated under a developer-informed oracle and their evaluation
lacks reliability.
In this paper, we present a novel approach called S
EM-SZZ to
tackle this issue. We conducted a study to e xplore the position
of unmodified lines that could be traced back to identify bug-
inducing commits. The results of this study revealed that in
most cases if a bug-inducing commit could be found by tracing
back unmodified lines within a function, it could typically be
identified by tracing back only the two unmodified lines near-
est the added lines, rather than tracing back the entire block
encapsulating the added lines.
Building upon these findings, we further refined our ap-
proach by incorporating techniques from previous studies [7],
[8] to filter out noise in the unmodified lines, such as blank
lines, comments, and meta-changes. Despite these refinements
that resulted in significantly higher precision compared to the
A-SZZ algorithm, they still suffered from low precision.
To further enhance precision, we conduct a more fine-grained
analysis. We begin by performing static program slicing to
extract program parts relevant to the bug. Then, we collect
and compare the states of the two versions of the program.
One version is the most recent commit previous to the bug-
fixing commit, while the other is the bug-fixing commit itself.
This process incorporates data flow analysis and control flow
analysis. Based on this analysis, we aim to identify which set of
statements in the previous version contributed to the bug. Sub-
sequently, when locating the bug-inducing commit, we traced
back from the bug-fixing commit to identify the earliest commit
that contains all these buggy statements, designating it as the
bug-inducing commit.
Compared to previous methods, S
EM-SZZ has two advan-
tages. Firstly, it improves precision by more fine-grained analy-
sis. Secondly, our method can be applied to all scenarios. Note
that we can also adopt our approach to bug-fixing commits with
deleted lines since the core idea of our approach is to compare
the states of the two versions of the program and identify the
statements contributing to the bug. Thus, based on the core idea,
we can apply S
EM-SZZ in all scenarios, regardless of whether
they contain deleted lines.
To evaluate our approach, we utilize the dataset proposed by
Lyu et al. [20]. Among all available datasets, we select this one
for two primary reasons. Firstly, the dataset is annotated by
the project’s developers, ensuring its accuracy and reliability.
Secondly, it contains the largest number of bug-fixing commits
with only added lines compared to other datasets. This dataset,
built on the Linux kernel, contains over ten thousand bug-fixing
commits without deleted lines. Thus, it is much more reli-
able than previous datasets, which are manually annotated and
small-scale. We assess our approach by attempting to address
the following questions:
RQ1: How effective is our approach in identifying bug-
inducing commits from bug-fixing commits with only
added lines?
In this research question (RQ), we first compare S
EM-SZZ
with our proposed baselines and A-SZZ across all bug-fixing
commits with only added lines. We also notice that some bug-
inducing commits cannot be found even by tracing back all lines
in the function and some bug-fixing commits do not contain
changed lines within functions. All methods mentioned above
cannot identify the first type of bug-inducing commits and
S
EM-SZZ is not designed to handle the second type of bug-
fix commits. Thus, we remove these redundant test cases and
then evaluate all methods. The results demonstrate that our pro-
posed baselines significantly outperform A-SZZ, and S
EM-SZZ
surpasses all baselines significantly, with an improvement from
17% to 19% in F1-score.
RQ2: How effective is SEM-SZZ in identifying bug-inducing
commits from bug-fixing commits with deleted lines?
In this research question (RQ), we compare our method
with baselines to identify bug-inducing commits from bug-
fixing commits with deleted lines. Our goal is to determine
whether S
EM-SZZ can effectively handle bug-fixing commits
with deleted lines. The result demonstrates that S EM-SZZ en-
hances precision by 7% and F1-score by 7%, respectively.
RQ3: How effective are the key components of SEM-SZZ?
In this research question (RQ), we conduct an ablation exper-
iment to verify the effectiveness of each key component. The
result shows that each key design, including data flow compar-
ison, path constraint comparison, the method to locate the bug-
inducing commit and the line similarity threshold, contributes
to the overall performance.
RQ4: How effective is S
EM-SZZ in terms of time cost?
An approach that consumes too much time is impractical for
deployment in real-world scenarios. In this RQ, we want to
investigate the time efficiency of our approach. The result shows
that our approach takes approximately 1.95 seconds to handle a
fixing commit from scratch, which can be deployed in practice.
In summary, our contributions can be summarized as follows:
• We provide a new insight on how to find bug-inducing
commits based on bug-fixing commits with only added
lines. Our study reveals that most bug-inducing commits
can be identified by tracing back nearby unmodified lines
of the added lines.
• We introduce a novel approach for pointing out statements
contributing to the bug from bug-fixing commits, which
compares the program’s state between two versions. This
approach can be applied to all scenarios, regardless of
whether the bug-fixing commit contains added lines.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on December 11,2025 at 08:26:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 