LLM4SZZ: Enhancing SZZ Algorithm with Context-Enhanced Assessment on Large Language Models ISSTA016:19
Table 8. The statistics of extra bug-inducing commits identified by LLM4SZZ
Count DS_LINUX DS_GITHUB DS_APACHE
only-additions 97 15 3
with-deletions 25 12 6
total 122 27 9
330 to 1,887 lines of code. This overwhelming long context hinders the LLM’s ability to accurately
detect the bug.
Fixing the bug requires subtle changes. The remaining 18 failed test cases arise from the LLM’s
difficulty in detecting subtle changes. For example, some bug-fixing commits only reorder code
statements. In such cases, the LLM may incorrectly assume that both versions contain the same
statements, misidentifying them as buggy. Similarly, bug fixes involving minimal changes, such as
altering a single word in a long string, are also challenging for the LLM to detect.
6.5 Can LLM4SZZ Find Extra Bug-inducing Commits?
In this section, we examine whether LLM4SZZ can identify extra commits that all baselines cannot.
Table 8 presents the statistics of the extra bug-inducing commits that baselines fail to find.LLM4SZZ
identifies 109 extra bug-inducing commits in DS_LINUX, 31 in DS_GITHUB, and 10 in DS_APACHE,
accounting for 7.8%, 7.4%, and 2.5% of the total bug-inducing commits, respectively.
We classify these bug-fixing commits into two categories: those containing only added lines
and those containing deleted lines. From the table, we observe that LLM4SZZ effectively identifies
bug-inducing commits from those with only added lines. Additionally, techniques employed in
LLM4SZZ, such as context expanding, facilitate the discovery of extra bug-inducing commits from
bug-fixing commits with deleted lines. In DS_LINUX, the majority of extra bug-inducing commits
are identified from bug-fixing commits with only added lines. Conversely, in DS_GITHUB, the
number of extra bug-inducing commits found from bug-fixing commits with only added lines is
nearly equal to those identified from bug-fixing commits with deleted lines.
6.6 Threats to Validity
Internal Validity. The LLMs may produce random outputs during the experiment. To minimize
bias, we set the same parameters for all models. Additionally, we repeat the experiment three times
and select the majority result as the final output. We also conduct our experiment on large-scale
datasets to counteract the randomness. These datasets consist of two programming languages and
a total of 2,104 test cases.
External Validity. One potential limitation is that we implement and evaluate LLM4SZZ on only
two programming languages, C and Java. However, the majority of bug-fixing commits in the
three datasets are written in these two languages. Another concern is that DS_LINUX is created
by randomly selecting test cases from the original dataset. To mitigate bias, we selected a total of
1,500 test cases, achieving over a 95% confidence level with a confidence interval of 3. The third
threat is the assumption that most bugs are fully fixed and introduced with a single commit. While
this assumption holds for most test cases in the three datasets, it may not reflect all real-world
scenarios. In the future, we plan to collect additional datasets to address this limitation.
7 Related Work
LLMs in SE. LLMs have been applied to numerous tasks in software engineering [Fan et al .
2023; Hou et al. 2023], such as code generation, software testing and software mountainance. In
code generation, researchers have proposed generation models like CodeX [Chen et al . 2021],
AlphaCode [Li et al . 2022] and Codegen [Nijkamp et al . 2022]. They have also improved the
Proc. ACM Softw. Eng., Vol. 2, No. ISSTA, Article ISSTA016. Publication date: July 2025.
