ISSTA016:8 Lingxiao Tang, Jiakun Liu, Zhongxin Liu, Xiaohu Yang, and Lingfeng Bao
To assess the LLM’s ability to determine whether the bug exists, we need two versions of the
program: one containing the bug and another where it has been fixed. Therefore, an ideal approach
is to make use of the bug-fixing commit𝐶𝑓 𝑖𝑥, where the version𝐶𝑓 𝑖𝑥∧1 is buggy and version𝐶𝑓 𝑖𝑥 is
correct. Although we can directly require the LLM to assess whether the commit is buggy based on
the root cause of the bug, experimental results indicate that this approach yields low performance
(see section 4). Instead, we first require the LLM to generate a hint to assist in determining whether
the commit contains the bug. The hint includes detailed information about the code statements in
the patch. Its further specifics will be provided later in this section. Then, we separately feed the
hint and the bug-related contexts extracted from commit 𝐶𝑓 𝑖𝑥 and 𝐶𝑓 𝑖𝑥∧1 to the LLM, asking it to
identify whether each version contains the bug. If the LLM even cannot identify the two versions
correctly using its own produced hint, we regard that the LLM is unable to comprehend the bug,
let alone select the final bug-inducing commit from a set of candidates.
As shown in Figure 3, the entire context-enhanced assessment process consists of four steps,
which are as follows:
❶ Context Expanding: First, we provide the LLM with sufficient context through a process
that we call context expanding. Previous studies have found that the contextual code is crucial for
providing information to the model [Chen et al . 2019; Xia et al. 2023]. However, the bug-fixing
commit often does not contain the full content of the changed functions. The partial content of
functions in the fixing commit may hinder the LLM’s ability to understand both the functions and
the modifications. Therefore, for each modified function, we expand its context by extracting the
full content of both buggy and fixed versions and generating their diffs. For modified lines outside
the function, we expand their context by extracting three unmodified lines around them. We have
presented an example of context expanding in the second motivation example, as illustrated in
Figure 2. Specifically, the code highlighted in blue represents new additions, and the others are
collected from the original patch. As indicated in Section 2.2, the buggy code this.instanceName
= clientConf.get(ClientProperty.INSTANCE_NAME)is not located in the original patch but in
the expanded context, indicating the necessity of the context expanding.
❷ Hint Generation: Next, we require the LLM to establish a hint to determine whether the bug
exists in a commit. Specifically, we ask the LLM to identify the code statements leading to the bug
and provide a reason. Additionally, we require the LLM to identify the code statements that fix the
bug and provide a reason. Note that we do not limit the LLM to choosing code statements only
from deleted lines. It can select any code statements from the expanded context.
❸ Context Refinement: Before assessing the LLMs’ ability to determine whether the bug exists
in a commit, we need to refine the expanded context to obtain the refined context. This step is
necessary because the expanded context may contain much irrelevant content that is not related
to the bug. For example, the expanded context might include an entire function with hundreds of
lines, while only a few lines are relevant to the bug. Feeding the expanded context directly to LLMs
may undermine their ability to assess the existence of the bug in a commit, as previous studies [Li
et al. 2023a] suggest that LLMs struggle with intricate tasks when handling long texts. Therefore,
we attempt to refine the expanded context. We first extract the buggy statements identified in the
hint from the file in commit 𝐶𝑓 𝑖𝑥∧1. These buggy statements are then sorted in ascending order
based on their line numbers {𝑙1, 𝑙2, ... 𝑙𝑛 } in commit 𝐶𝑓 𝑖𝑥∧1, where 𝑙1 is the smallest line number
and 𝑙𝑛 is the largest. Here, we define 𝑙𝑚𝑖𝑛 as 𝑙1 −𝑁 and 𝑙𝑚𝑎𝑥 as 𝑙𝑛 +𝑁. N is a constant starting from
3 to ensure that lines 𝑙𝑚𝑖𝑛 and 𝑙𝑚𝑎𝑥 can be mapped to corresponding lines in commit 𝐶𝑓 𝑖𝑥. If line
𝑙𝑚𝑖𝑛 or line 𝑙𝑚𝑎𝑥 cannot be mapped, we keep incrementing N. Then, we extract the content ranging
from the line number 𝑙𝑚𝑖𝑛 to the line number 𝑙𝑚𝑎𝑥 , forming the refined context for commit 𝐶𝑓 𝑖𝑥∧1.
To obtain the refined context for commit𝐶𝑓 𝑖𝑥, we map lines 𝑙𝑚𝑖𝑛 and 𝑙𝑚𝑎𝑥 to their corresponding
Proc. ACM Softw. Eng., Vol. 2, No. ISSTA, Article ISSTA016. Publication date: July 2025.
