LLM4SZZ: Enhancing SZZ Algorithm with Context-Enhanced Assessment on Large Language Models ISSTA016:3
to utilize the LLM to analyze the root cause of the bug and identify buggy statements based on code
changes and the commit message. This process leverages the commit message, addressing limitation
1. When identifying buggy statements, the LLM can detect not only deleted lines but also unchanged
lines, addressing limitation 2. The enhanced approach then traces these buggy statements to obtain
a set of candidate commits and requires the LLM to select the bug-inducing commits from this set,
addressing limitation 4. Furthermore, we can provide the LLM with more context which solves
limitation 3. At first glance, this simple approach seems to address all the problems. However, several
challenges remain in this simple method. Challenge 1: LLMs struggle with complex bug-fixing
commits that involve numerous changes across multiple files and functions. These commits often
contain significant noise unrelated to the bug fix, undermining LLM’s performance. Challenge
2: We need to provide more information to help the LLM determine whether the bug exists. The
root cause of the bug and the content of the commit are often insufficient (see Section 3.2 and
Section 5.2). Challenge 3: When asking the LLM to determine whether a commit contains a bug, we
must carefully consider the context provided. An overly long context can degrade performance [Li
et al. 2023a], while a too-short context may omit crucial information necessary for the LLM to
understand the code [Chen et al. 2019; Xia et al. 2023]. Challenge 4: Many types of bugs remain
beyond the LLM’s understanding [Bouzenia et al. 2024; Parasaram et al. 2024], making it difficult
for LLMs to ascertain their presence in a commit. Treating these bugs the same way as those the
LLM can comprehend will adversely affect overall performance. For instance, if we determine that
the LLM can understand the bug and identify its presence in a commit, we can use it to select the
final bug-inducing commit from a set of candidates; otherwise, we cannot. Further details will be
discussed in Section 5.2. Therefore, a better approach is needed to solve those challenges to fully
leverage the potential of LLMs.
In this paper, we propose an LLM-based approach called LLM4SZZ. In the preparation phase,
we summarize the root cause of the bug and filter out irrelevant files based on the patch content
and the commit message. This step helps eliminate noise when handling large bug-fixing commits,
addressing challenge 1. Next, we assess the LLM’s ability to understand the bug and the ability
to determine whether it exists in the commit. Instead of directly asking the LLM to determine
whether a commit contains a bug, we employed a more complex strategy, consisting of several
parts. This approach is taken because we find that direct judgments are ineffective, see Section 5.2.
To evaluate this ability, we first provide the LLM with expanded context and require it to generate
a hint indicating whether the bug is present, addressing challenge 2. Before asking the LLM to
determine whether the bug exists, we refine the context to address challenge 3. We then present
the LLM with the root cause of the bug, the hint, and refined contexts for two versions of the
program: one buggy and one correct. If the LLM can accurately distinguish between the two
versions, we consider it capable; otherwise, it is not. Based on this ability assessment, we developed
two approaches: context-enhanced identification and rank-based identification, which resolves
challenge 4. In context-enhanced identification, we provide the LLM with more context and require
it to select the bug-inducing commit from a set of candidates. In rank-based identification, we
follow the methodology outlined in the previous study [Tang et al. 2023], asking the LLM to identify
buggy statements from the bug-fixing commit and rank them based on their relevance to the root
cause. To evaluate our method, we use three high-quality, developer-annotated datasets, ensuring
their accuracy. We assess our proposed method by answering the following questions:
RQ1: How effective is LLM4SZZ in identifying bug-inducing commits from bug-fixing
commits compared to baselines?
In this RQ, we compare LLM4SZZ with all baselines across three datasets to determine whether
LLM4SZZ can outperform the baselines in identifying bug-inducing commits. The experimental
Proc. ACM Softw. Eng., Vol. 2, No. ISSTA, Article ISSTA016. Publication date: July 2025.
