ISSTA016:4 Lingxiao Tang, Jiakun Liu, Zhongxin Liu, Xiaohu Yang, and Lingfeng Bao
results demonstrate that LLM4SZZ surpasses all other baselines in F1-score, with a notable improve-
ment ranging from 6.9% to 16.0%. Furthermore, LLM4SZZ enhances both precision and F1-score
without significantly sacrificing recall.
RQ2: How effective are the key components of LLM4SZZ ?
We also conduct an ablation experiment to ensure that all key components of LLM4SZZ, namely
the context-enhanced assessment, the context-enhanced identification, and the rank-based identifi-
cation, contribute to its performance. Additionally, we demonstrate that utilizing LLMs directly on
the SZZ algorithm cannot yield satisfactory results.
RQ3: How effective is LLM4SZZ if we apply it on other open-source large language models?
In this RQ, we aim to examine whether the core ideas of LLM4SZZ can be applied to other
open-source large language models. We implement LLM4SZZ using llama3-8b and llama3-70b. The
experimental results show that LLM4SZZ can be effectively applied to other LLMs, and better LLMs
can enhance its performance.
In summary, we make the following contributions:
•We provide insights into how large language models (LLMs) can enhance the performance of the
SZZ algorithm while also highlighting the limitations in this task.
•Based on these insights, we propose a novel approach to fully leverage the LLM’s capabilities,
which consists of two methods for locating bug-inducing commits, with the choice of method
being adaptive to the LLM’s ability to comprehend the bug.
•We implement LLM4SZZ on two popular programming languages and evaluate it on three
developer-annotated datasets. The experimental results show that LLM4SZZ outperforms all
other baselines across the datasets.
2 Background
In this section, we first introduce the SZZ algorithm’s variants. Then we present our motivation
examples.
2.1 SZZ Algorithms
AG-SZZ. The AG-SZZ algorithm was proposed by Kim et al. [Kim et al . 2006]. They observed
that some changes in bug-fixing commits, such as blank lines, comments, and cosmetic changes,
do not affect the program’s behavior. Therefore, they excluded these changes when tracing back
deleted lines. Additionally, they utilized the annotation graph instead of simply using the annotate
command, as the annotation graph provides more detailed information about line changes and
movements.
MA-SZZ. Da Costa et al. proposed the MA-SZZ algorithm. [Da Costa et al. 2016]. They found that
the AG-SZZ algorithm mistakenly identifies commits with only meta-changes as bug-inducing
commits. Meta-changes refer to branch changes, merge changes, and property changes. Da Costa et
al. addressed this issue by connecting all meta-change nodes in the annotation graph to their prior
changes, ensuring that the MA-SZZ algorithm does not include meta-changes as bug-inducing
commits.
R-SZZ and L-SZZ. L-SZZ and R-SZZ, both based on the AG-SZZ algorithm, were proposed by
Davies et al. [Davies et al . 2014]. They improved the AG-SZZ algorithm by selecting only one
commit as the bug-inducing commit from the results produced by the AG-SZZ algorithm. R-SZZ
selects the commit with the most recent date, while L-SZZ selects the commit with the most changed
lines.
RA-SZZ. Neto et al. [Neto et al . 2018] proposed the RA-SZZ algorithm after discovering that
previous SZZ algorithms trace back changed lines related to refactoring operations when locating
Proc. ACM Softw. Eng., Vol. 2, No. ISSTA, Article ISSTA016. Publication date: July 2025.
