method, which consists of three steps. The required input in-
cludes the CVE-IDs for an open-source software project under
investigation, the set of open-source code for all its versions,
and the developer logs (including the set of changelogs and
the set of git logs corresponding to the CVE-IDs). The ﬁrst
step is to build the version tree and obtain a version number
set over which the vulnerability has been patched according
to the commit-ids recorded in the changelogs. Based on this
version set, the second step involves three different processing
directions: (R1) to determine the last vulnerable version number
in the trunk of the version tree, (R2) to determine the vulnerable
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 15,2026 at 04:05:42 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== Page 005 =====
HE et al.: AUTOMATICALLY IDENTIFYING CVE AFFECTED VERSIONS WITH PATCHES AND DEVELOPER LOGS 909
Fig. 3. Overview of our approach with three major steps numbered from 1 to 3.
version of each version branch and (R3) to determine the ﬁrst
vulnerable version. To ensure the accuracy of the results, in this
step, we need address some special problems, such as solving
the vulnerability reappearance problem, using developer logs to
detect whether there are vulnerabilities in the partial matching
source code. Finally, we compare the vulnerable version set of
our tool against the vulnerable version set accoding to the NVD,
and report the error rate of the NVD set. Among them, if there is
a CVE vulnerability in a certain version but not reported in the
NVD, it is a false negative case. If a certain version has no CVE
vulnerability but is reported in the NVD, it is a false positive
case.
A. Build V ersion Tree and Acquire Committed V ersion Set
Software versions are published in git as tags. Every tag
has its commit log in which parent commits are recorded. We
can build the version tree by recursively traversing from the
commit logs of versions to its parent and grand parent commit
logs. However, there is a common protocol to arrange versions.
Taking the Linux operating system as an example, the team
publicly announced the types of versions on the Linux kernel
ofﬁcial website, including main branch version (Mainline), sta-
ble version and long-term version. The main branch version is
the starting point version of each vertical branch in the version
tree, which introduces all new functions based on the previous
main branch version. From the main branch version, new stable
versions are released later one by one, which form the trunk of
the version tree. Based on this protocol, we can build the version
tree for Linux kernel by digits in its version. Next we brieﬂy
introduce a few notations about the version tree and give an
example. We refer to the overall structure of the software release
versions as aversion tree, with the ﬁrst version as the root node
Vroot.F i g .4 shows an example version tree with version 1.0
Fig. 4. Version tree: structural model of source code release versions. A red
triangular node represents a vulnerable version, a red triangular node in green
dotted circle represents a known unpatched version, a blue node represents a
version with unknown status.R1,R 2,R 3 indicate the three directions in which
we are looking for other vulnerable versions.
as Vroot. In the version tree, nodes,Vi.j, with two digit version
numbers (e.g., versions 2.6 and 4.0) are calledmajor versions,
and nodesVi.j.k with three digit version numbers (e.g., versions
3.3.5 and 5.0.4) are calledminor versions, and they are located
in the branches of the corresponding major versions. For the
version branch ofVi.j, we refer to the end of the branch (i.e., its
largest minor version) asVi.j.E (e.g., version 3.3.22 in Fig.4).
In addition, we useV i.j.k to denote a vulnerable version, and
V i.j.U is the last (or upto) vulnerable version in the branch of
Vi.j.W ea l s ou s eV i.j.k(E) (‘E’ means “excluding”) to denote
the vulnerable versionimmediately beforeVi.j.k, whereVi.j.k is
not vulnerable (i.e., patched). Finally, foreach reported vulnera-
bility (CVE-ID), we useV from and V upto to denote its ﬁrst and
last vulnerable versions in the entire version tree, respectively.
Speciﬁcally, as shown in Fig.4, for a given CVE-ID, we will
search the other vulnerable versions in the version tree in three
directions R1,R 2,R 3. R1 is the direction (process) to ﬁnd the
ﬁrst vulnerable versionV from , R2 is to ﬁnd the last vulnerable
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 15,2026 at 04:05:42 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== Page 006 =====
910 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON DEPENDABLE AND SECURE COMPUTING, VOL. 21, NO. 2, MARCH/APRIL 2024
version V i.j.U in each version branch,R3 is to ﬁnd theactual
last versionV upto of the entire version tree, which could be later
than theupto version reported in NVD.
Generally, there are one or more patches to ﬁx a CVE. In
most cases, a CVE-ID corresponds to one git log, and a git log
is identiﬁed by a commit-id. But sometimes there are more than
one commit-id to ﬁx a CVE when there are several patches for
the CVE. As long as the changed code (vulnerability ﬁxes, bug
ﬁxes, etc.) is submitted, git logs will be created. Therefore, each
patched version is uniquely identiﬁed by a commit-id or several
commit-ids. We ﬁrst obtain the commit-ids corresponding to
the CVE-ID, and then explore the changelog information. A
changelog corresponds to the release of a new version, and it
records all modiﬁcations to the previous version. Therefore,
a changelog typically records many different git logs, so it is
shorthand format for git logs. Although each change log is not
completely consistent with the writing structure of a git log,
there is no difference in key content information such as the
commit-ids. If all commit-ids of a CVE are included in the
changelog, it indicates that the CVE vulnerability has been
patched in the current version. Thus, we use the commit-ids
located by CVE-ID to traverse all changelogs available to obtain
the committed (i.e., patched) version set. We regard them as the
known patched versions.
As a running example, let us assume the three versions in
green dashed circles in Fig.4 form the committed version set of
this CVE-ID, in whichV3.0.6 and V4.0.4 are the minimum and
maximum committed version, respectively. However, not every
branch corresponds to a committed version, and the reason will
be introduced in SectionIV-C.
B. Determine the Last Vulnerable V ersion of CVE-ID (R1)
As the maximum committed version recorded by the changel-
ogs, canV4.0.4 be used asVu p t oof this CVE-ID? Is the same
vulnerability deﬁnitely gone afterV4.0.4? The answer isno.
In this section, We will combine developer logs and patches to
determine Vu p t o. To make it easier to understand, we ﬁrst give
two examples to illustrate the problem. During our research, we
ﬁnd an interesting phenomenon: starting from a certain version
after the maximum committed version, the code may be restored
to its previous unpatched state. Let us take CVE-2014-9715 as an
example. The reason for its existence is that insufﬁciently large
data type was used for certain extension data, which allows local
users to cause a denial of service. From changelogs, we know that
its maximum committed version isV3.14.5. However, we ﬁnd that
starting fromV4.12, the code returned to the original unpatched
state. According to the git log of CVE-2014-9715, this patch
solves thedenial of servicevulnerability by reducing the size of
the “ecache extension”. However,in its git log, the committers
regarded that the previous patch released three years ago did not
ﬁx this vulnerability well. Therefore, they restored the code to its
unpatched state, and put forward the method of “compile-time
assertion” to repatch the vulnerability. This illustrates the case
that although the code is unpatched, the vulnerability corre-
sponding to this CVE-ID no longer exists. In another example
with CVE-2015-8558, unpatched code also reappeared in the
version after the maximum committed version. Similarly, from
the description of the log information, the developers said that
they used a new approach to patch the previous vulnerability,
different from the ﬁrst patch.
Patches are developed and used to ﬁx bugs. However,
some patches are correct but do not perform as good as ex-
pected(correct but not good), or do not ﬁx the bugs com-
pletely(incomplete), or introduce new bugs(wrong). Conse-
quently, the earlier committed patches may be totally unpatched
or patially unptached, and then newer patches are commited
(“repatch”). According to our study, the repathes is an inevitable
issues through all versions of Linux Kernel and the number of
repatches is signiﬁcant. In order to achieve high precision of
identifying the affected versions, it is important to consider the
phenomenon, otherwise, the errors are non-negligible and not
acceptable. Our tool is based on the assumption of correctness
of patches, so that we only consider repatches that the earlier
patches are correct, then unpatched totally or partially, ﬁnnaly
repatched with better patches. We do not consider wrong or
incomplete patches.
For a given CVE-ID, patch-based detection[19], [20] will
mistake the above repatch cases as “vulnerability reappearance”,
so how do we verify whether the unpatched code has a real
vulnerability? We already know that the information in the
changelog is sometimes incomplete, so it is not enough to rely
only on it. For example, for CVE-2018-21008, the NVD report
shows that the last vulnerable version is 4.16.6, and the maxi-
mum committed version based on the changelogs is 4.14.166,
but there are still unpatched versions after 4.16.6. Our solution is
to use both the patches and developer logs to accurately identify
the unpatched code. In the case of repatch, our research found
that it always includes the following two operations in the git
log: (1) unpatch, consisting of complete unpatch and partial
unpatch. Complete unpatch restores the previous unpatched state
and changing the ‘-’ in diff hunk to ‘+’ and ‘+’ to ‘-’, which is
an inverse process of patching. Patial unpatch is a partial inverse
process of patching. It is similar to complete unpatch except that
it only includes part of the diff hunk. (2)repatch, applying a new
patch to the unpatched code.
We cannot easily locate the diff hunks of repatched code
through a CVE because a repatch is not released as a new
CVE. Fortunately, the git log of a repatch clearly and accurately
describes which previous patch(es) is(are) replaced by including
the commmit-id of the previous git log in the title or the text
body of the new git log for the repatch. We notice that the two
operations of repatch,unpatch and repatch, may be carried out
in one commit, resulting in a single git log. Compared with a
previous patch, the location of a repatch may be the same code
block in the same ﬁle, such as the repatch of CVE-2017-7477.
It can also ﬁx code blocks in different locations of the same ﬁle,
such as the repatch of CVE-2018-5873. It may also ﬁx code
blocks in different ﬁles, such as the repatch of CVE-2014-9715.
The two operations of repatch may also be carried out in two
separate commits, resulting in two different git logs. The git
log for the repatch operation can be located in the same git
log list indexed by the same vulnerable ﬁle, the author, or the
committer of the patch. Again, we can get the diff hunks of
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 15,2026 at 04:05:42 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== Page 007 =====
HE et al.: AUTOMATICALLY IDENTIFYING CVE AFFECTED VERSIONS WITH PATCHES AND DEVELOPER LOGS 911
the repatch after locating the previous commit-id in the title or
text body of git log, for example, the diff hunk of “repatch” of
CVE-2014-9715. We use it against thenf_conntrack_core.c
ﬁle to judge the existence of this vulnerability. Through the
above process we can accurately justify whether there is an
unpatched CVE vulnerability (i.e., without being repatched)
after the maximum committed version.
Next, we present our algorithm for determiningV upto with
our running example in Fig.4. Here,V4.0.4 is the highest version
of the committed version set. First, we determine whether the
unpatched code still exists in major versions afterV4.0.4 based
on exact matching. If it does not exist, it means the vulnerability
has been ﬁxed in all versions afterV4.0.4,s oV4.0.4 is regarded
as V upto(E). On the other hand, if unpatched code exists in
a later major version, sayV5.0, we will check if a repatch has
been applied to it to avoid false reporting. Speciﬁcally, we ﬁrst
check whether there is an unpatch status in the git log list of the
vulnerable ﬁle. if it does not exist, repatch cannot exist either,
so the last unpatched version will be regarded asV upto(I).
However, if unpatch exists, we will check if a repatch exists in
the git log list indexed by the same vulnerable ﬁle, the author or
the committer of the patch, and accordingly locate the diff hunk,
as described in the paragraph above. IfV5.0 has been repatched, it
does not have this vulnerability any more, soV4.0.4 is regarded
as V upto(E). On the contrary, if the last unpatched version,
say V5.0.3, has not been repatched, and it will be regarded as
V upto(I). Therefore, we accurately determined the boundary of
the vulnerable versions on the far right of the version tree.
C. Determine the Last Vulnerable V ersion in Each Branch (R2)
The committed version set output from R1 of our tool does not
give us the complete knowledge on the vulnerable versions. First,
some branches in the version tree may correspond to non-long-
term stable versions[39], and they are no longer maintained.
Therefore, even though the versions in these branches are still
vulnerable with respect to a CVE, they are no longer patched.
In other words, although not covered in the committed version
set, there may be vulnerable versions in these branches. Second,
some versions may have no changelogs submitted, so they have
slipped out from our detection, because our tool uses changelogs
as the input to generate the committed version set.
To address the problem, intuitively we can check each version
against the patch. This is clearly inefﬁcient and unscalable.
Instead, we leverage the following heuristics: (1) in each version
branch, the release time of a minor versionVi.j.k must be later
than the major versionVi.j or the earlier minor versionVi.j.k−1,
(2) a changelog states which vulnerabilities it has ﬁxed and
it is released together with the current software version. For
example, ifV4.14.177 in Fig.5 is a committed version (because
its changelog states the vulnerability has been ﬁxed), the vul-
nerability must not exist inV4.14.178 and the other later minor
version. The similar examples includeV4.19.116, V5.4.33 etc.
Let us denote the disclosure time of the CVE asTCV E.A s
reported by Li et al.[40], CVE publication time in NVD is not the
same as CVE disclosure time, but the median difference is only
Fig. 5. The relationship between CVE-ID committed time and version release
time.
Fig. 6. Look for the upper boundary of the vulnerability in the version tree.
one month, so that we can use CVE publication time to approx-
imate its disclosure time. When the CVE is released, it may or
may not have patches available. We useTCV Eto quickly identify
the potentially vulnerable versions in each branch. Speciﬁcally,
for each branch, we ﬁrst compareTE, which is the release time
of its last versionVi.j.E, with TCV E.I f TE <T CV E, that is,
version Vi.j.E was released before the CVE, we then determine
whether Vi.j.E contains the vulnerable code by matching against
the patch. If it is an exact match (not patched), we directly take
Vi.j.E as V i.j.U (I) of this branch. If it is a partial match, we will
use the method in the next subsection to verify whetherVi.j.E
has the vulnerability. Otherwise, we will look for the boundary
in the earlier versions backward,If the boundary does not exist,
then Vi.j.E is considered asV i.j.U . Otherwise we refer to the last
unpatched version asV i.j.U , and verify that the patching record
of the version following the boundary version is missing from the
changelog. Therefore, we accurately determined the boundary
of the vulnerable versions in each branch of the version tree.
D. Determine the First Vulnerable V ersion Number of CVE-ID
(R3)
For a given CVE-ID, once we discoverV from and V upto,t h e
boundary containing all the vulnerable versions is determined.
However, it is very challenging to identify the ﬁrst vulnerable
version V from . On the one hand, we should not immediately
label the minimum committed version reported by changelog
(e.g., V3.0.6 in Fig.4)a sV from , because early versions might
not have the corresponding changelog or the changelog was
incomplete. On the other hand, open-source code versions are
continuously updated and released and for some early versions,
the code related to the CVE vulnerability may have gone through
many changes, so that they can not be matched exactly with the
patches. Recall that it is apartial matchwhen a diff hunk does
not completely match the corresponding source code. In theory,
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 15,2026 at 04:05:42 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== Page 008 =====
912 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON DEPENDABLE AND SECURE COMPUTING, VOL. 21, NO. 2, MARCH/APRIL 2024
Fig. 7. Examples of partial matching code (The left side shows the diff hunk
(DH) of each CVE patch, and the right side shows the corresponding source
code fragment (SF)).
the software versions that are partially matched with patches
may or may not be vulnerable.
In order to leverage the information of partial matches, we ﬁrst
classify partial matches into three categories, and then we design
the method to locate the partially matching code fragments based
on the diff hunk(s) of a given CVE. Finally we justify whether
the code has the CVE vulnerability based on git logs and partial
matches so as to determine the ﬁrst vulnerable versionV from .
1) Classiﬁcation and Detection of Partial Matches:By ana-
lyzing the partial matches in a large number of early versions,
we summarize the code features into the following three cate-
gories, and then we detect and locate the matching source code
fragments according to their categories. For ease of presentation,
we introduce a few notations. We useDH to denote a Diff Hunk
composed ofsub and oth, Fun to denote the vulnerable Function,
and SF to denote the Source code Fragment in the CVE-speciﬁed
ﬁle corresponding to theDH.I nF i g .7(a) and (b), “Function()”
in the DH (also in SF) represents the Fun, and in Fig. 7(c),
“FunctionB1()” of theDH represents theFun.
Case 1. The SF only partially matches oth of the DH.A s
shown in Fig.7(a), corresponding to theoth code in theDH, SF
does not call funcD1 and it has “return err” instead of the “break”
statement in the “if(err)” branch. Moreover, it calls funcD2,
which has a different name from funcD1 inoth. In this case,
SF contains all the code insub.
Case 2. The SF partially matches thesub of theDH.A ss h o w n
in Fig.7(b),t h eSF lacks “int n” and “if” statements of theDH.
For oth, SF may not contain the entireoth, but it contains at least
one oth and onesub statement.
Case 3. The SF only partially matches the contextual func-
tions of theDH,b u tt h eSF contains the entiresub.A ss h o w ni n
Fig. 7(c), contextual functions A1 and C1 are used to locate the
vulnerable function B1 inDH, but they are named A2 and C2
in theSF. Although the functions B1 and B2 also have different
parameters, they might still be the same vulnerable function.
For example, for CVE-2013-1959, the function used to locate
Fun is “set_cred_user_ns”, but this function does not exist inSF
before the Linux kernel version 3.8. For CVE-2017-14991, the
Fun is “sg_ﬁll_request_table”, but before Linux kernel version
4.13, the function inSF is “sg_ioctl”, and they are the same
vulnerable code in different functions. For CVE-2017-8069, the
contextual function of theDH is “async_set_reg_cb”, but it is
the “ctrl_callback” function in theSF in Linux kernel version
3.2.86.
Given the Diff Hunk(DH) of a CVE, we will detect and locate
all the Source code Fragments (SFs) in the early versions for
three partial match cases, respectively. The high level idea of
our algorithm is as follows. In all three cases, there is at least
one line of matched code inSF with that inDH. Therefore, we
use one or two lines of matched code as the anchor point to
select three blocks of code in the function(Fun) of the source
code. Let us take the example of only one line of Matched Code
(called MC), and assume there are L1 and L2 lines of code before
MC and after MC, respectively, in theDH. To locateSF,i nt h e
Fun of the source code, we select L1 and L2 lines of code before
Matched Code(MC) and after MC as the ﬁrst and the third block,
respectively while MC serves as the second block. When there
are two or more lines of matched code, the code in the source
code between the ﬁrst MC and the last MC forms the second
block while the ﬁrst and third blocks are selected in the same
way as previously. The detailed algorithm is presented in the
supplemental document(available online).
2) Justify the Vulnerable V ersions by Git Logs:After we lo-
cated all the Source code Fragments(SFs) in the partial matches,
we will justify whether theseSFs contain the vulnerability with
the help of git log information. We propose anautomatic log
tracing method to trace the corresponding git logs. We illustrate
our idea through the example in Fig.8. Here, with respect to
a CVE, the versions betweenV1.0 and V2.1 shared the same
(partial matching) source code fragmentSF3. After an update
on SF3, the versions betweenV2.2 and V2.5 shared the same
SF2. After another update onSF2, the versions starting from
V2.6 shared the (exact matching)SF1.L e tsf-diff represent the
difference between the SFs of two versions, and it can be
generated through a diff tool[41]. Since each update resulted
in a git log that recorded the difference in the form of a Diff
Hunk, we can use each sf-diff to traverse every git log in the
git log list whose release time was earlier thanTCV E, and ﬁnd
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 15,2026 at 04:05:42 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== Page 009 =====
HE et al.: AUTOMATICALLY IDENTIFYING CVE AFFECTED VERSIONS WITH PATCHES AND DEVELOPER LOGS 913
Fig. 8. Some earlier major versions that are continuously updated.V2.2 to
V2.5 have the same partial matching vulnerable code (red dotted frame).
the corresponding git log by exactly matching the sf-diff against
the DHs in the git logs. Then, we manually use log information
(e.g., description, commit-id) to accurately determine whether
the current version is vulnerable. This process is done for each
sf-diff in the backward temporal order. Note that a sf-diff may
consist of multiple consecutive diff hunks, and the diff hunks
may be recorded in multiple git logs.
Proper commit messages with information about what is being
merged and why they merge are not always logged[42]. There-
fore, our justiﬁcation result for a partially matching software
version can be divided into three types: Yes, No, Probable.
Among them, “Yes” means it is a vulnerable version because
there is detailed information in the git logs, such as the exploit
of Proof-of-Concept (POC) or the dependency relationship of
the vulnerability, which is established in the form of text or
commit-id. “No” means it is a non vulnerable version because the
CVE-related Source fragments (SFs) does not exist. “Probable”
means it is a suspicious version because we have no sufﬁcient
information. It is worth noting that, in order to ensure the in-
tegrity of the results, although some partially matching versions
need to be reviewed by human experts to determine whether the
code is vulnerable, the proportion of these versions is small and
the cost is not high. We will report the number of CVEs/commit
that require manual inspection and the total man-hours spend in
the next evaluation section.
We use one example to illustrate the idea. According to
description of CVE-2011-2521, there is a vulnerability in func-
tion ”x86_assign_hw_event”. However, when our tool checks
the patch, many earlier versions are partially matched. By log
tracing based on the commit-id of the patch, it is found that this
vulnerability was originally introduced from the commit
41bf498, and patched twice afterwards because the ﬁrst patch
was not complete. This example demonstrates how the log
tracing helps to identify the ﬁrst version of the vulnerability,
3) The Method to Find the First Vulnerable V ersion:Our
algorithm for determining V from is as following. First, for
a CVE-ID, we obtain the matching results (exact or partial
matching) by checking eachmajor version before the minimum
committed version in the version tree (e.g.,V3.0.6 in Fig.9). If all
the matching results are exact matches, then the ﬁrst vulnerable
version is the earliest version with exact matching. Otherwise,
Fig. 9. Identify the ﬁrst vulnerable version in the version tree.
TABLE I
WEBSITE DISTRIBUTION OF PATCHES
we determine V from by the log tracing and vulnerability jus-
tiﬁcation methods introduced in SectionIV-D2. We illustrate
the process for determiningV from with our example in Fig.8.
In the ﬁrst step, we ﬁnd the ﬁrst exact matching major version
before V3.0.I fi ti sVroot, then Vroot is V from . If it is not, the
ﬁrst exact matching version, sayV2.6, will be regarded asV from
as long as the vulnerable ﬁle does not exist in the early version
V2.5. Otherwise, in the second step, if the last partial matching
version V2.5 does not contain the vulnerability or its vulnerability
status cannot be veriﬁed by us,V2.6 is regarded asV from .I f
the vulnerability exists, the versions beforeV2.5 with the same
partial matching code are all regarded as vulnerable versions. In
the backward order, through log tracing, eventually we will be
able to identify the ﬁrst vulnerable version and label it asV from .
V. EVA L UAT I O N
We ﬁrst brieﬂy introduce the implementation of our system,
and then evaluate the effectiveness of our algorithms via stan-
dard metrics such as precision and recall. Let TP be the number
of true vulnerabilities detected (true-positives), FP be the num-
ber of false vulnerabilities detected (false-positives), and FN be
the number of true vulnerabilities undetected (false-negatives).
The metric precision= TP/(TP + FP) reﬂects the correctness
among the detected positives. The metric recall=TP/(TP + FN)
reﬂects the completeness of the detected positives.
A. Implementation
We implemented our system in Python 3.6.0. Our experi-
ments ran on a PC with Intel CPU core i5-8265 U operating at
1.80 GHz and 8 GB RAM. The implementation consists ofData
Crawler, Vulnerable V ersion Finder, Log Tracer, and Result
Generator. Data Crawler connects to the speciﬁed URLs to
collect and preprocess software packages (such as Linux kernel,
Qemu, OpenSSL), CVE database, patches, and Changelogs etc.
Vulnerable Version Finder implements the algorithms in R1,
R2 and R3 to ﬁnd the ﬁrst(‘from’) and last(‘upto’) vulnerable
Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 15,2026 at 04:05:42 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== Page 010 =====
914 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON DEPENDABLE AND SECURE COMPUTING, VOL. 21, NO. 2, MARCH/APRIL 2024
TABLE II
THE RESULT STATISTICS OFDETERMINING THE FIRST VULNERABLE VERSION OF EACH CVE-ID IN THE LINUX KERNEL VERSION TREE
versions. Log Tracer searches the logs to ﬁnd evidences of
the vulnerability status. Finally, Result Generator compares the
