approach to detect unpatched code clones in OS-distribution
scale code bases, and VUDDY uses coarse-grained function
feature values to detect code clones. Our vulnerability database
includes Linux kernel (totally 1,367 CVE-IDs, 2,664 security
patches by Sep. 2020), OpenSSL (totally 91 CVE-IDs, 165
patches by Jan. 2021), BusyBox (totally 13 CVE-IDs, 20 patches
by Jan.2021), Wget (totally 22 CVE-IDs, 31 patches by Jan.
2021), QEMU (totally 114 CVE-IDs, 145 patches by Jan.2021).
To measure and compare the accuracy of the three vulnera-
bility detection methods, we randomly select one version from
each of the above ﬁve pieces of software, as shown in the ﬁrst
column of TableIII. We check each version against all the 2,576
CVE-IDs. With the ground truth (in total 69 vulnerabilities)
established by the developer logs (i.e., changelogs and git logs),
we show the accuracy of the three methods in TableIII.O n e
can observe that neither ReDeBug[32] nor VUDDY[43] could
achieve high precision and recall here, whereas our method has
94.3% precision and 95.6% recall. Some CVEs released by NVD
do not have corresponding patch(es), and these CVEs slipped out
from the detection of our tool, which is the reason for the 95.6%
recall of our tool. As shown in Fig.16, under these ﬁve data sets,
we show the number of repatches collected by year. After manual
veriﬁcation, it is found that some partially matched code reported
by our tool do not have the CVE vulnerability, which is also the
reason for the 94.3% precision of our tool. We summarized the
reasons that led to the false positives and false negatives with
ReDebug and VUDDY: (1) they wrongly identiﬁed repatched
code (i.e., repatched in a different way) as a vulnerability, and
(2) some exact or partial matching vulnerable code were not
identiﬁed. Further, ReDebug detects by comparing the similarity
between patch and vulnerability code, and the granularity is
coarse, resulting in a large number of false positives. VUDDY
is designed to achieve low false positive rates, which appear to
be inherent to the approach of detecting vulnerabilities caused
by code clones. However, when using this approach to detecting
vulnerabilities that are not caused by code clones, high false
negative rates occur. Note that although here the measurement
